Hello teams!

Challenge Release has come and gone, and CITY SHAPER<sup>SM</sup> and BOOMTOWN BUILD<sup>SM</sup> have officially started! Word of warning - this email is denser than the past few, and we've added a few documents for you to check out. Emails after this one *should be* less dense. 

If it's been a while, make sure to check out the [past emails](https://github.com/drewwhis/alabama-first-lego-league/tree/master/2019-2020) and [FAQ](https://github.com/drewwhis/alabama-first-lego-league/wiki/Frequently-Asked-Questions).

## Challenge Release

The challenges have been released! Now what?

First, make sure you've satisfied all organizational requirements.
- Each team has two coaches over the age of 18 who have passed Youth Protection Policy Screening.
- Each team has paid any required fees. For FLL, this includes the \$225 registration fee. For FLL Jr., this includes the \$99 registration fee.
- Each team has an appropriate number and range of students. For FLL, this includes 2 to 10 children between the ages of 9 and 14. For FLL Jr., this includes 2 to 6 children betweenthe ages of 6 and 10.

Next, make sure you've acquired or arranged to require all required equipment.
- Every team needs a season-specific set. For FLL, this is the \$75 challenge set. For FLL Jr., this is the Inspire Set included with your registration fee.
- Each team needs a challenge-appropriate technology set (resuable year-to-year). For FLL, this is the LEGO MINDSTORMS set. For FLL Jr., this is the LEGO WeDO set.
- Every team needs a device to program their technology set.

Finally, familiarize yourself with any documents for the current season.
- [FLL Documents](https://github.com/drewwhis/alabama-first-lego-league/blob/main/2019-2020/fll/documents.md)
- [FLL Jr. Documents](https://github.com/drewwhis/alabama-first-lego-league/blob/main/2019-2020/flljr/documents.md)

I would recommend familiarizing yourself with the Team Meeting Guide and Engineering Notebook for your program ASAP - before your team starts meeting if possible but definitely before your team starts engineering! Those documents will be available to each registered team.

For anyone interested, we've tried to capture some of the major changes for the 2019-2020 seasons here:
- [FLL Changes](https://github.com/drewwhis/alabama-first-lego-league/blob/main/2019-2020/fll/whats-new.md)
- [FLL Jr. Changes](https://github.com/drewwhis/alabama-first-lego-league/blob/main/2019-2020/flljr/whats-new.md)

These documents are not comprehensive, so make sure you read through all of the challenge materials.

For FLL, there are changes to the Champions Award and Advancement Criteria this season, but that information won't be available until **September 1**. If you've competed before, you'll experience the same judging process and robot rounds, but the way the Champion's Award winners and advancing teams are determined will be different from past seasons.


## Twitch Broadcast

There's an upcoming Twitch broadcast from *FIRST* with the Challenge design team to provide more information about the challenge. You can view the broadcast on the [*FIRST* Twitch](https://www.twitch.tv/firstinspires) on **August 15** at **11 AM CDT**. 

For those unfamiliar, Twitch is primarily used for video game live streaming, so there's a good chance it'll be blocked on a school network. You might want to test the site out and talk to your IT department if you plan on watching the live broadcast with your students.


## Coaches Workshop

Don't forget our Coaches Workshop will be held on August 24th from 1:00 PM to 4:00 PM (CDT) at ADTRAN in Huntsville, AL! This workshop will address topics in FLL and FLL Jr.

We're asking anyone who might attend (either in-person or remotely) to fill out our [topic survey](). If you're planning on attending in-person, we ask that you register using [our EventBrite page](). Be aware that these links are disabled on GitHub.

To aid in planning, please fill out the survey and register ASAP. Both will close on August 16.


## Slack

One tool we use throughout the year is the *FIRST*<sup>&reg;</sup> in Alabama Slack Workspace. It's a great way to connect with the Partners, the *FIRST*<sup>&reg;</sup> Senior Mentor, and other coaches. We'll also use it to take remote attendee questions during the workshop.

You can join the Slack using [our invite link](). Be aware that the invite link is disabled on GitHub.

Once you've joined, make sure to follow the appropriate channels (we have multiple channels for FLL and a separate channel for FLL Jr.). To learn more about using Slack, you can check out [their documentation](https://get.slack.help/hc/en-us/categories/360000049043).


## Events

Make sure you're keeping up with our [posted events](https://github.com/drewwhis/alabama-first-lego-league/blob/main/2019-2020/event-dates.md) for *FIRST* in Alabama. We have not yet announced our qualifiers for *FIRST* LEGO League, though we have posted the dates. This information is likely coming at the end of August as we need a better estimate of the number of registered teams in the state.

As a reminder, **every registered** FLL team can attend exactly one qualifier (up to 12 teams per qualifier) with the chance to advance to the state championship (36 teams), and **every registered** FLL Jr. team can attend the official state expo.

Remember that an FLL qualifier carries a \$100 registration fee, and the state championship would carry an additional \$100 registration fee.


## Grants

We've announced two available grants so far, so we wanted to review them for anyone who might've missed out.
- TVA Grants for FLL and FLL Jr. registration and challenge set. See [this email](https://github.com/drewwhis/alabama-first-lego-league/blob/main/2019-2020/email-blasts/2019-07-24.md) for details.
- AMSTI Grants for robotics. See [this email](https://github.com/drewwhis/alabama-first-lego-league/blob/main/2019-2020/email-blasts/2019-07-21.md) for details.


## Closing

You've had a lot of new information delivered and a lot of old information reviewed since Thursday. There's still more information to come, so make sure you spend some time this week (if possible) looking over everything.

If you have any questions about anything, let us know at FLL@FIRSTinAlabama.org or ask in Slack (direct message or in channel).

Good luck to all teams!

Best,

Drew and Taylor Whisenant