Hello teams!

I know that you've gotten **A LOT** of emails recently, but this *should* be the last one for the week (and it's the **most important** from our perspective).

Now that everyone has been assigned to their qualifying events, we need to make sure all teams have their contacts up to date.

Please read this message carefully and update your contacts **by Friday, October 4, 2019**. We will be sending contact information the qualifier managers this weekend.

## Individual Information

Every contact for a team should have the following information:
- Email Address
- Phone Number
- Consent and Release Form
- Screening

I've noticed that some team contacts have invalid email addresses. Talk with your other contacts and make sure emails are up to date. Many of you have a school phone number on your account. While this is fine for non-coaches, it causes some issues if you are coach. If there is an issue on the day of the tournament, this is the number an event manager would call. If you are listed as a **coach** for any team, you should make sure your phone number is one that you can answer during a tournament. To update your phone number or email address, follow [these directions](https://github.com/drewwhis/alabama-first-lego-league/wiki/Updating-Contact-Information).

Everyone attending a *FIRST*<sup>&reg;</sup> event must complete a Consent and Release Form. While your students and their parents can do paper copies of the form, you can easily complete the electronic version for yourself by following [these directions](https://github.com/drewwhis/alabama-first-lego-league/wiki/Complete-the-Consent-and-Release-Form).

Anyone who coaches a *FIRST*<sup>&reg;</sup> team should also complete the Youth Protection Policy screening process. If you have not completed screening, you can do so by following [these directions](https://github.com/drewwhis/alabama-first-lego-league/wiki/Complete-Youth-Protection-Policy-Screening).


## Team Contact Information

I've also noticed that *many* teams only have one person listed as a team contact. *FIRST*<sup>&reg;</sup> requires two coaches for each team, and this allows us (and the event managers) a backup contact if we cannot reach one contact.

Teams can have someone listed as a Team Admin, but please note that this is **not** a coach. A person who is a Team Admin can *also* be a coach, and one person can be a coach for multiple teams.

Please make sure that every team you're affiliated with has two coaches. These do not have to be the actual people meeting with the team, but they are the people who *FIRST*<sup>&reg;</sup> considers "responsible" for the team.

You can invite contacts by following [these directions](https://github.com/drewwhis/alabama-first-lego-league/wiki/Inviting-Missing-Contacts)


## Closing

Thank you for taking the time to have your team information up to date. Having the correct information in **by this Friday** will help the qualifier managers keep your team in the loop on all qualifier-related news.

If you have questions about any of the above procedures, feel free to reach out to us at FLL@FIRSTinAlabama.org.

Best,

Drew and Taylor Whisenant
