Hello teams!

Congratulations on your advancement to the *FIRST*<sup>&reg;</sup> LEGO<sup>&reg;</sup> League Alabama Championship! We are looking forward to seeing you on January 25, 2020 at Hampton Cove Middle School.


## Payment

The fee to compete in the event is \$100. You can submit payment to:

    FIRST in Alabama
    3002 Boundary Oaks Drive
    Owens Cross Roads, AL 35763

Make sure to include your TEAM NUMBER so we know where to apply the payment!

If you need an invoice or W-9, email Taylor at twhisenant@FIRSTinAlabama.org.


## Team Numbers at State

This year, we will be replacing your team number at the state event! All teams will be assigned a number from 1 to 36. Be on the lookout for more information after the first of the year.


## Lunch Orders

We will offer lunch orders for teams after the first of the year, so watch out for that email!


## Basic Schedule

Teams should plan to arrive by 7:15 AM so that the Coaches Meeting can start promptly. Like the qualifiers, your teams will go through judging and the practice round in the morning. Opening Ceremonies will start at 11:30 AM **following judging and the practice round**. The Ranking Rounds will start at 12:10 PM, and we plan for Closing Ceremonies to start at 4:45 PM.

Keep in mind that the better everything stays on schedule through the day, the better we will stick to the schedule at the end of the event!

We anticipate sending more detailed schedules after the first of the year.


## Judging and Awards

Judging expectations remain the same from the qualifiers. If you need a refresher, refer to the [Judging and Advancement](https://github.com/drewwhis/first-in-alabama/blob/main/2019-2020/fll/judging-and-advancement.md) document.

As an overview:
- Robot Design: four minutes to cover the Robot Design Executive Summary followed by six minutes for Q&A.
- Innovation Project: five minutes for the presentation followed by five minutes for Q&A.
- Core Values: five minutes for the Core Values activity followed by five minutes for Q&A.

Only team members and the two coaches will be allowed in the judging rooms. You may **not record, film, or take pictures** during the Core Values session, but you may during the other two.

We will give an award for each of the nine areas (the nine sections of the rubrics). We will name three finalists for the Champion's Award; of those three teams, one will be named the Champion's Award Winner. We will also present the award for the highest score during the ranking rounds.

At this time, we anticipate having three invites to post-season events, including an invitation to the *FIRST*<sup>&reg;</sup> LEGO<sup>&reg;</sup> League World Festival in Houston, Texas, for the Champion's Award Winner.


## Team Information Sheet

We ask that you complete and email the Team Information Sheet in advance of the event. Please email your completed sheet to dwhisenant@FIRSTinAlabama.org no later than Saturday, January 11, 2020. This will give us plenty of time to get them printed for the judges.


## Closing

If for any reason your team will not attend the championship event, please let us know AS SOON AS POSSIBLE. We have room for 36 teams and we would really like to make sure we use every spot!

If you have questions or need to request accommodations, please let us know at FLL@FIRSTinAlabama.org.

We look forward to a great state championship event!

Best,

Drew and Taylor Whisenant

*FIRST*<sup>&reg;</sup> LEGO<sup>&reg;</sup> League Alabama Championship Team List

| Team Number | Team Name                           |
| ----------- | ----------------------------------- |
| 660         | Warrior Robotics                    |
| 1687        | Robo Rangers                        |
| 5495        | MES Team #1                         |
| 7252        | Farley 1                            |
| 11772       | MSE Robo-Nados                      |
| 13271       | RoboGrizzlies 001                   |
| 14738       | TigerBot Team Bots and Bricks       |
| 16035       | TigerBot Team Legobot               |
| 16965       | Short Circuits                      |
| 17883       | Break a Leg-O                       |
| 18238       | High Voltage                        |
| 19234       | Astro-Girls                         |
| 24610       | Mystery Machinery                   |
| 24661       | Ram Robotics                        |
| 29891       | AMS Penguins                        |
| 30014       | TigerBot Team Wrecking Ball         |
| 30015       | TigerBot Team Legacy                |
| 31293       | Brooks Pride Bots                   |
| 31513       | Blue Cheetahs                       |
| 32309       | Skyrockets                          |
| 33322       | Robot Rascals                       |
| 39133       | Libertas Lions Omega Pride          |
| 39227       | Fellowship of the Fries             |
| 39374       | C.R.A.B. (Cool Robots And Builders) |
| 39377       | DAR Middle TEKs                     |
| 39697       | Huntsville Smarties                 |
| 40172       | McDonnell Elementary Stingers       |
| 41104       | Robotic Raiders                     |
| 41105       | IkeaBots                            |
| 42146       | ROBO Troopers                       |
| 45352       | Linking Lions                       |
| 46057       | Bot Tribe                           |
| 46121       | Libertas Lions Alpha Pride          |
| 46673       | Black Cheetahs                      |
| 47303       | Master Builders                     |
| 50066       | Hampton Cove Hawks 1                |