Hello teams!

We would like to thank everyone who joined us yesterday for the Alabama Coaches Workshop, either remotely or in-person. We generated a lot of great questions, and we hope we provided useful answers. If you missed out, the recording is available on [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TZPiB6aUo4A).

## Resources

As a reminder, we have several resources currently available in our GitHub pages. If you see something is missing, let us know.
- [Past Emails](https://github.com/drewwhis/alabama-first-lego-league/tree/master/2019-2020/email-blasts)
- [FAQ](https://github.com/drewwhis/alabama-first-lego-league/wiki/Frequently-Asked-Questions)
- [FLL Resources](https://github.com/drewwhis/alabama-first-lego-league/tree/master/2019-2020/fll)
- [FLL Jr. Resources](https://github.com/drewwhis/alabama-first-lego-league/tree/master/2019-2020/flljr)
- [Event Dates](https://github.com/drewwhis/alabama-first-lego-league/blob/main/2019-2020/event-dates.md)


## Grants and Registration

We would like to remind you that it is important for *FIRST*<sup>&reg;</sup> LEGO<sup>&reg;</sup> League teams to complete registration payment (\$225) as soon as possible. Remember that you cannot order your challenge set (\$75) until you have paid your registration.

We plan to announce our qualifier locations in September, and we plan to do qualifier registration in mid-September. **Only registered** teams can register for qualifiers. If you have questions, please let us know.

We have been informed that the **TVA Grants have been depleted**. If you have **not** applied for a TVA Grant, there are no more to award, so you would need to explore another avenue. If you **have applied** and **not heard back**, you should contact *FIRST*<sup>&reg;</sup> at FIRSTLEGOLeague@firstinspires.org to follow up.

For *FIRST*<sup>&reg;</sup> LEGO<sup>&reg;</sup> League Jr. teams, your registration fee (\$99) will need to be paid prior to registering for the Alabama Expo. We anticipate opening that event's registration in January 2020.


## Guide Misprints

Below is a message from *FIRST*<sup>&reg;</sup>. Please read it, and let them know if you have any questions.

> Dear US/Canada teams, 
>
> As you probably have noticed, there are some discrepancies between the Team Meeting Guides and Engineering Notebooks you received with your Challenge materials or will receive shortly. This is an unfortunate error in our printing process, and we apologize for the confusion. We do have a solution that we believe makes it as easy as possible for you to move ahead with your team and make the most of the new guided program materials:   
>
> The Team Meeting Guides contain the specifics needed to score in a competitive event. 
> - The Engineering Notebook is missing some Robot Game specifics and additional EV3 guidance.   
> - You can find the scoring specifics of the Robot Game in the Game Guide [here](https://firstinspiresst01.blob.core.windows.net/fll/2020/city-shaper-game-guide-pdf.pdf) 
> - **As always, continue to check for the latest Robot Game updates [here](https://firstinspiresst01.blob.core.windows.net/fll/2020/city-shaper-challenge-updates.pdf)**.
> - Additional recommended EV3 guidance can be found [here](http://firstinspiresst01.blob.core.windows.net/fll/2020/fll-ev3-overview.pdf). 
> 
> If you have questions, please reach out to firstlegoleague@firstinspires.org.  We want to ensure that every team has an excellent experience this season. 
>
> Again, we apologize for this mistake. It just goes to show that the problem-solving skills the kids are developing come in handy in the workplace. 
>
> With high fives and admiration, 
>
> *FIRST*® LEGO® League  


## Sweepstakes

Now through September 17, your *FIRST*<sup>&reg;</sup> LEGO<sup>&reg;</sup> League team can enter to win a LEGO® MINDSTORMS® EV3 robot, and your *FIRST*<sup>&reg;</sup> LEGO<sup>&reg;</sup> League Jr. team can enter to win a LEGO® Education WeDo 2.0 technology set.

Complete your 2019-2020 season registration before September 17, 2019 for a chance to win.

The *FIRST*<sup>&reg;</sup> LEGO<sup>&reg;</sup> League sweepstakes package includes one (1) LEGO<sup>&reg;</sup> MINDSTORMS<sup>&reg;</sup> EV3 robot kit. If your team has already completed your *FIRST*<sup>&reg;</sup> LEGO<sup>&reg;</sup> League 2019-2020 season registration, you are already entered into the sweepstakes. Three winners will be chosen at random from all eligible entrants on or around September 18, 2019.

The *FIRST*<sup>&reg;</sup> LEGO<sup>&reg;</sup> League Jr. sweepstakes package includes one (1) LEGO<sup>&reg;</sup> Education WeDo 2.0 technology set. If your team has already completed your *FIRST*<sup>&reg;</sup> LEGO<sup>&reg;</sup> League Jr. 2019-2020 season registration, you are already entered into the sweepstakes. Three winners will be chosen at random from all eligible entrants on or around September 18, 2019.

For more information, *FIRST*<sup>&reg;</sup> LEGO<sup>&reg;</sup> League teams can visit [this link](https://info.firstinspires.org/firstlegoleague-2019-sweepstakes) and *FIRST*<sup>&reg;</sup> LEGO<sup>&reg;</sup> League Jr. teams can visit [this link](https://info.firstinspires.org/firstlegoleaguejr-2019-sweepstakes).


## Other Events

We've already announced our plans for a Mechanical and Programming Workshop for Coaches in late September and a Fun Scrimmage Event (for a limited number of teams) in late October. We plan to announce specific dates for those events next week.

We are adding another event, as well. We plan to offer an opportunity for **any** team to bring their robot and try it on a different table. The event will be in early November in the Huntsville area. Teams will be able to sign up for a time-slot and bring their robot. This will not be an all-day event, and we won't have all teams there at the same time. This is an opportunity to test a few robot runs on a table with mat and models other than the one you have at home.


## Slack

One tool we use throughout the year is the *FIRST*<sup>&reg;</sup> in Alabama Slack Workspace. It's a great way to connect with the Partners, the *FIRST*<sup>&reg;</sup> Senior Mentor, and other coaches. We also use it to take remote attendee questions during our workshops.

You can join the Slack using [our invite link](). Be aware that the invite link is disabled on GitHub.

Once you've joined, make sure to follow the appropriate channels (we have multiple channels for FLL and a separate channel for FLL Jr.). 

To learn more about using Slack, you can check out [their documentation](https://get.slack.help/hc/en-us/categories/360000049043).


## Closing

Please let us know if you have any questions or run into any issues by emailing us at FLL@FIRSTinAlabama.org.

Best,

Drew and Taylor Whisenant