Hello teams!

This special mid-week email is brought to you by the availability of TVA Grants!

## TVA Grants

### Team Eligibility

All *FIRST*<sup>&reg;</sup> LEGO<sup>&reg;</sup> League teams in the TVA Service Area are eligible for funding, which will cover the team registration & Challenge Set. 

All *FIRST*<sup>&reg;</sup> LEGO<sup>&reg;</sup> League Jr. teams in the TVA Service Area are eligible for funding, which will cover the team registration & Inspire Set. 

Teams must **begin** the registration process with *FIRST* and have a team number, however, teams must **NOT pay** for registration as it will forfeit their TVA Grant. No exceptions, substitutions or refunds will be made.

TVA team grants are available on a **first come, first served** basis.  Funds will be available until September 12, 2019 (FLL) or September 10, 2019 (FLL Jr.) OR until team registration closes in your region OR until we reach the grant cap – whichever comes first.  

### Application

All teams interested in receiving TVA funds must submit a very short online application to *FIRST*® which can be found [here]().

Be aware that the link is not active on GitHub.

### Receiving a Grant

*FIRST* will review all grant requests each **Wednesday by noon, Eastern Time**. *FIRST* will send the grant requests to Tennessee Valley Authority to verify your team’s location within their service area. This process usually takes 48 hours. Once *FIRST* receives the approval back from Tennessee Valley Authority, teams can expect the grant funds to be available within 5 business days.

You could see as much as **2 weeks pass between requesting your grant and receiving** the funds. Please plan accordingly if you have known, critical deadlines. Any applications from teams that have already paid registration or are outside of the TVA service area will be declined.

*FIRST* will notify the team coach or mentor of record via email when the grant is available. The coach or mentor may log into the Team Registration Dashboard and will see the grant funds available in their account. If **two weeks** have passed since you requested your grant, please check with your team’s coach first before contacting FIRST about the status of the grant.

### Thanking TVA
It is always great to recognize and thank our sponsors for their generous assistance. You are more than welcome to acknowledge them on your robot and in your collateral. You can also send Thank You notes electronically to Rachel Crickmar at rbcrickmar@tva.gov or by mail to the below address:

  Attn: Rachel Crickmar
  TVA
  26 Century Blvd., OCP 6A
  Nashville, TN 37214. 

## Other Grants

The TVA grants are only available to teams in the TVA Service Area and only cover the cost of registration and the challenge set or inspire set. We suggest you look at other sources if the TVA grants are not useful to you.

Checkout our [past emails](https://github.com/drewwhis/alabama-first-lego-league/tree/master/2019-2020/email-blasts) for details on the AIAA and AMSTI grants currently available.

## Closing

Please let us know if you run into any issues or have questions by emailing us at FLL@FIRSTinAlabama.org.

Best,

Drew and Taylor Whisenant