Hello teams!

Can you believe this is the last week before Challenge Release!? 

Remember to check the [past emails](https://github.com/drewwhis/alabama-first-lego-league/tree/master/2019-2020/email-blasts) and [FAQ](https://github.com/drewwhis/alabama-first-lego-league/wiki/Frequently-Asked-Questions) for anything you might've missed before the big day!

## \#CSGuessTheMissions

The FLL #CSGuesstheMissions contest is open now until July 30! Teams can submit a 30-seconds or less video guessing one of the CITY SHAPER<sup>SM</sup> missions for a chance to win a prize pack! Learn more about the contest [here](https://fllblog.wordpress.com/2019/07/12/get-building-with-csguessthemissions/)! 


## Name the Crane!

*FIRST* has an opportunity for our registered FLL Jr. teams as well - name the crane! Now through September 9, registered FLL Jr. teams can suggest a name for the crane in BOOMTOWM BUILD. You can learn more about the contest [here](https://fllblog.wordpress.com/2019/07/19/make-your-mark-on-boomtown-name-the-crane/).


## Class Pack

In addition to competition teams, *FIRST* offers the Class Pack and School Pack programs intended as part of a classroom curriculum. These STEM Education packs are **non-competitive**, but you can use them to complement your competition teams! Class Packs are designed for up to 30 students. Each Class Pack includes two meeting guides (for teachers), 30 Engineering Notebooks, and a number of Challenge/Game Kits. 

Class Packs can be purchased for \$395 (FLL Jr. Discovery Edition), \$495 (FLL Jr.), and \$595 (FLL) **per year**. *FIRST* also offers a School Pack for FLL Jr. that provides materials to support 144 students at \$955 per year. The Class and School Packs do **not** include Robot Kits, which can be purchased separately and are reusable year-to-year.

Though the Class and School Packs are **non-competitive**, you can supplement them with competition team registrations, allowing some or all of your Class/School Pack teams to be competition teams, as well. Visit the [Class/School Pack page](https://info.firstinspires.org/stem-education-class-packs) for more information.


## AMSTI Grants

There are robotics grants available through AMSTI for fiscal year 2020 now! 

A few things to note about the grant process:
- Grants are applied for and awarded on a *school-by-school* basis.
- Elementary schools **are** eligible, as are middle and high schools. 
- Multiple schools in a district may apply for and receive the grant.
- Maximum award is $1,500.
- The *notification* of awards is October 1.
- Awards cannot be used for registration or computers, but they can be used for robotics kits (like the LEGO MINDSTORMS EV3) and competition equipment (like the Challenge Set).

I've been involved in applying for this particular grant for an FRC team. They do take some time to be awarded and dispersed. You should work with those responsible for your funds to see how best to use the grant and get your materials in a timely fashion.

Learn more about the robotics grants from [AMSTI's page](http://www.amsti.org/robotics?fbclid=IwAR3qS-KnuojE4-dM2vY4vrjGebhjqgRmdDMouNMj5yEdMqWiLyMmwnQtMMg).


## INTO ORBIT<sup>SM</sup> Post-Season

The Alabama Region was well-represented in the post-season this year! We had four teams compete at three invitational tournaments - and all four were recognized for their hard work!
- Team 39374 - C.R.A.B. (Cool Robots And Builders) competed at the *FIRST* LEGO League Mountain State Invitational in Fairmont, West Virginia, with 61 other teams and was recognized with a Judges Award (The Rookie All-Star Award).
- Team 18238 - High Voltage competed at the *FIRST* LEGO League Razorback Invitational in Fayetteville, Arkansas, with 79 other teams and was recognized with the Presentation Finalist Award.
- Team 16965 - Gigawatts also competed at the *FIRST* LEGO League Razorback Invitational in Fayetteville, Arkansas, with 79 other teams and was recognized with the Research Finalist Award.
- Team 39133 - Libertas Lions, the *FIRST* LEGO League Alabama Championship Champion's Award winner, competed at the *FIRST* LEGO League World Festival in Houston, Texas, with 107 other teams and was recognized with the Third Place Research Award.

Congratulations to our post-season teams, our *FIRST* LEGO League Alabama Championship teams, and all teams that attended qualifying tournaments during the INTO ORBIT season.


## Coaches Workshop

We're going to open registration for our Coaches Workshop *next week*! The workshop will take place on **August 24** from **1:00 PM to 4:00 PM** at **ADTRAN** in **Huntsville**, and we plan on hosting the session remotely, as well. In the meantime, we'd like to get an idea for what *you'd* like to see and hear at the event.

We invite *anyone* who *might* attend (either remotely or in-person) to complete our survey, found [here](). Note that the link is not available on GitHub.

We will be using the *FIRST* in Alabama Slack work group during the event to support our remote attendees. It's also a great tool to collaborate with other coaches and the FIA staff and volunteers.

You can join our Slack group with [this invitation]() and subscribe to the right channels. Remember that the Slack link is disabled on GitHub. For more information about how to use Slack, checkout [this page](https://get.slack.help/hc/en-us/categories/360000049043).

## Closing

We're looking forward to the start of the CITY SHAPER and BOOMTOWN BUILD seasons, and we hope you are, too! We look forward to hearing your suggestions for the workshop and to seeing you at an event this season!

If you have any questions, comments, or concerns, let us know at FLL@FIRSTinAlabama.org.

Best,

Drew and Taylor Whisenant