Hello teams!

This is a notice that a team you are affiliated with has been assigned to the ***FIRST*<sup>&reg;</sup> LEGO<sup>&reg;</sup> League Alexander City Qualifier**. Please check below for event details and a list of teams attending.

## Details

- Event: *FIRST*<sup>&reg;</sup> LEGO<sup>&reg;</sup> League Alexander City Qualifier
- Date: 14 December 2019
- Location: Central Alabama Community College
- Event Manager: Nick Nicholson

Your event manager will be following up with event-specific information (including payment), so be on the lookout and make sure to check your spam folders. If you have any questions about **the event** (including payment), please contact your event manager. If you have more general questions (not specific to the event), feel free to contact Drew and Taylor.


## What Do I Do Now?

Make sure you review the judging, awards, and advancement guidelines for this season. We have compiled the expectations for our region [at this page](https://github.com/drewwhis/first-in-alabama/blob/main/2019-2020/fll/judging-and-advancement.md).


## Teams

These teams will be attending the *FIRST*<sup>&reg;</sup> LEGO<sup>&reg;</sup> League Alexander City Qualifier. If you need to update the name of a team, please do so as soon as possible (instructions [here](https://github.com/drewwhis/first-in-alabama/wiki/Changing-a-Team-Name)).

| Team Number | Team Name |
| ----------- | --------- |
| 1250	      | Maxwell Eagles |
| 14738	      | TigerBot Team Bots and Bricks |
| 16035	      | TigerBot Team Legobot |
| 17883	      | 4D.Fusion |
| 27338	      | STJ Trobotics |
| 30014	      | TigerBot Team Wrecking Ball |
| 30015	      | TigerBot Team Legacy |
| 40118	      | LEGOTRONS |
| 41987	      | Robo Blasters |
| 45541       | North Side Knights |
| 47303	      | Coosa 2 |
| 47441	      | The ECMS Young Viruses |


## Closing

The concludes the qualifier registration process for the 2019-2020 CITY SHAPER<sup>SM</sup> season.

Taylor and I will be at several qualifiers this season, as will other members of the program's planning committee. We wish you good luck at your qualifier, and we are excited to see your team this season!

Best,

Drew and Taylor Whisenant