Hello teams!

We're looking forward to seeing some of you this Saturday at the Coaches Workshop, and we hope more of you will join us remotely!

Remember to check [past emails](https://github.com/drewwhis/alabama-first-lego-league/tree/master/2019-2020/email-blasts) and the [FAQ](https://github.com/drewwhis/alabama-first-lego-league/wiki/Frequently-Asked-Questions) for any questions, first.

FLL Coaches: Make sure you're checking the [Challenge Updates](https://firstinspiresst01.blob.core.windows.net/fll/2020/city-shaper-challenge-updates.pdf) at least weekly! Note that Challenge Updates may affect the [What's New Page](https://github.com/drewwhis/alabama-first-lego-league/tree/master/2019-2020/fll/whats-new.md).

All Coaches: If you missed the kickoff Twitch stream last week, you can view it [here](https://www.twitch.tv/videos/467583706).


## Coaches Workshop

Our Coaches Workshop is **this** Saturday, August 24th, from 1:00 PM to 4:00 PM at ADTRAN in Huntsville. The workshop will feature topics from both FLL Jr. and FLL, but we will be leaning more heavily on FLL.

We will be sending an agenda out later in the week, along with information for those joining remotely (checkout the Slack information to join the conversation).

We will have snacks, water, and coffee available (you can bring your own K-Cups, if you'd like).

For those joining in-person, we have directions attached. Let us know if you have any questions or issues.


## Slack

One tool we use throughout the year is the *FIRST*<sup>&reg;</sup> in Alabama Slack Workspace. It's a great way to connect with the Partners, the *FIRST*<sup>&reg;</sup> Senior Mentor, and other coaches. We'll also use it to take remote attendee questions during the workshop.

You can join the Slack using [our invite link](). Be aware that the invite link is disabled on GitHub.

Once you've joined, make sure to follow the appropriate channels (we have multiple channels for FLL and a separate channel for FLL Jr.). 

To learn more about using Slack, you can check out [their documentation](https://get.slack.help/hc/en-us/categories/360000049043).


## Upcoming Events

We plan to announce our qualifying events in September. Note that the possible dates are November 9, November 16, December 7, and December 14. We anticipate multiple events on at least some of those dates. We will have a better idea of what events will be offered as more teams complete registration.

We are still planning a late September technical workshop for *FIRST*<sup>&reg;</sup> LEGO<sup>&reg;</sup> League coaches and a late October scrimmage for *FIRST*<sup>&reg;</sup> LEGO<sup>&reg;</sup> League teams. We don't have much information to offer other than what is listed on the [events page](https://github.com/drewwhis/alabama-first-lego-league/tree/master/2019-2020/event-dates.md) at this time.

Finally, the *FIRST*<sup>&reg;</sup> LEGO<sup>&reg;</sup> League Alabama Championship will be held on January 25, 2020, for advancing teams, and the *FIRST*<sup>&reg;</sup> LEGO<sup>&reg;</sup> League Jr. Alabama Expo will be held on April 4, 2020, for all teams. 


## Grants and Payment

If you've received a grant in your Dashboard, make sure you complete the checkout process so that your team shows as registered.

For those teams that have received or relied on TVA Grants this year or in past years, we do want to make you aware that those grants *may* not be available next season. The agreement with *FIRST*&reg; was made for three years, and this was the third year. At this time, we do not know whether or not the agreement will continue, and we do not have any information one way or the other, nor do we know when such a decision would be made.

For those reasons, we **strongly** encourage teams to start fundraising and planning over the next year in anticipation of season, just in case, to ensure timely registration.

So far, TVA grants are still available for **this** season, and the sooner you apply, the sooner you will be notified.


## *FIRST*<sup>&reg;</sup> Tech Challenge Kickoff Event

The FTC Kickoff event is being hosted by FTC Team 13808 The Time Travelers on September 7th in Huntsville, Alabama, from 10:00 AM to 2:00 PM.

We are looking for FLL and FLL Jr. teams to attend the event to show off what they're working on and have worked on! They have booth space available for all *FIRST*<sup>&reg;</sup> programs, so if you're interested, sign up [here](https://firstinalabama.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=f0cf78c5a9c06d79cd683a8ae&id=d5017529a4&e=fb065b58de).

We would love for both programs to be represented (especially with FTC and FRC attending our Coaches Workshop), so please sign up!


## Closing

Please let us know if you have any questions or run into any issues by emailing us at FLL@FIRSTinAlabama.org.

Best,

Drew and Taylor Whisenant