Hello teams!

With the Alabama Coaches Workshop two days away, we wanted to go ahead and get you any information you might need. Remember that the event officially runs from 1:00 PM to 4:00 PM.

## In-Person Attendees

Our Coaches Workshop is at ADTRAN in Huntsville. 

We will have snacks, water, and coffee available (you can bring your own K-Cups, if you'd like).

We have directions attached. Let us know if you have any questions or issues.


## Remote Attendees

We will be broadcasting the event on YouTube. You'll be able to view the workshop in close-to real-time (there is a delay of a few seconds, last time I checked).

You can view the workshop using [this link](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TZPiB6aUo4A).

If you would like to ask questions during the workshop, you can do so using our Slack workgroup.

When you join the Slack, make sure you join the appropriate channels for discussion. For example, questions about FLL **do not** belong in the \#first-general channel; they belong in \#fll-general, \#fll-project, or \#fll-robot-game depending on the topic.

For this workshop, we ask that all FLL questions be asked in \#fll-general and all FLL Jr. questions be asked in \#flljr-general.

You can learn more about using Slack and joining channels using [this link](https://get.slack.help/hc/en-us/categories/360000049043). You can join our Slack using [this link](). Note that the join link is disabled on GitHub.


## Agenda

Here is the agenda we have planned for the workshop.
- 1:00 to 2:00 - Presentations
  These are short presentations by the staff to cover general topics that have been requested and that we feel warrant direct attention.
- 2:00 to 2:30 - Table and Challenge
  This is an overview of the table with a head referee and the staff. We will try to address questions and common penalties.
- 2:30 to 3:00 - Sharing Experiences
  We have several topics that we think can be best approached by having coaches talk to one another and share their experiences.
- 3:00 to 3:45 - Concurrent Sessions
  We have three simultaneous offerings for the last session.
    - Sharing Experiences (continued)
    - Demos with an FTC Team and an FRC Team
    - Brief Programming Overview (WeDo, EV3, EV3 Python)
      
  The programming overviews will **not** be in-depth, as we have another workshop planned for those topics. This will be just enough for those who haven't used the technology to get started.
- 3:45 to 4:00 - Final Questions and Wrap-Up
  We will attempt to address any final questions that have arisen.


## Closing 

We hope you join us (in-person or remotely) on Saturday. Please let us know if you have any questions at FLL@FIRSTinAlabama.org.

Best,

Drew and Taylor Whisenant