Hello teams!

If you're reading this, we're probably on our way home with some *FIRST* Friends<sup>TM\*</sup> from volunteering at the *FIRST*<sup>&reg;</sup> LEGO<sup>&reg;</sup> League Mountain State Invitiational in West Virginia, which finally wraps up our INTO ORBIT<sup>SM</sup> season! We're still tracking for an August 1 Challenge Release for *FIRST*<sup>&reg;</sup> LEGO<sup>&reg;</sup> League and *FIRST*<sup>&reg;</sup> LEGO<sup>&reg;</sup> League Jr. Don't forget to check out the [past emails](https://github.com/drewwhis/alabama-first-lego-league/tree/master/2019-2020/email-blasts) and [FAQ](https://github.com/drewwhis/alabama-first-lego-league/wiki/Frequently-Asked-Questions).


## *FIRST*<sup>&reg;</sup> Senior Mentor (FSM)

My last email included a few acronyms, and I'm excited to introduce another one! The *FIRST* Senior Mentors (FSMs) are "highly skilled and talented technical and non-technical individuals, who focus on recruiting, supporting and expanding *FIRST* programs." 

FSMs support the entire progression of programs (FLL Jr., FLL, FTC, and FRC) through a variety of responsibilities, and you can learn more about their role from [*FIRST*](https://www.firstinspires.org/ways-to-help/volunteer/senior-mentors).

Effective July 15, 2019, we are absolutely ecstatic to welcome Alabama's shiny, new *FIRST* Senior Mentor, Jamie McClung. Jamie is based out of Fort Payne, where he works full-time as a teacher and manages multiple FLL teams, an FLL Jr. team, and an FRC team. He also has experience across several other STE(A)M programs, including GreenPower and Project Lead the Way.

In this role, Jamie will be a resource for all of *FIRST* in Alabama, and we look forward to his formal support of our programs and your teams!


## What Can/Should I Be Doing Right Now?

Many of you are returning this year to a familiar program, and some of you are exploring a new program! While we can't offer much direction about what to expect this season until the Challenge Release, here are a few things you can work on while we wait!

* Review the [*FIRST* Core Values](https://www.firstinspires.org/robotics/fll/core-values).
* Decide how team members will be identified or selected.
    * Remember that teams have limits on the number of students and the ages of students.
* Identify at least one computer your team can use during the season.
    * You will need a device to program your MINDSTORMS or WeDo.
* Install programming software on the computer(s) your team will use.
    * For FLL, this will likely be the MINDSTORMS EV3 (or older NXT) software.
    * For FLL Jr., this will likely be the WeDo software.
* If you need an [FLL Robot Game table](https://www.firstinspires.org/sites/default/files/uploads/resource_library/fll/table-build.pdf) you can go ahead and get one built! Just know that you should expect some variability in tables you encounter. Most notably, some tables will have walls made of 2x3's and some will have walls made of 2x4's.

We don't have much else to offer *right now*, but you'll have plenty to plan for starting August 1!


## Coaches Workshop

Don't forget our Coaches Workshop will be held on **August 24, 2019** at ADRAN in Huntsville! 

This workshop will be for coaches of **both** programs, FLL Jr. and FLL! We plan on getting a tentative schedule next week.

In addition, we plan on having a set of mission models prepared for FLL and an Inspire Set for FLL Jr. We also plan to invite some FTC and FRC teams to be available to demonstrate their programs and answer questions.

We plan on streaming at least some of the workshop for those who cannot attend in person. We will use the *FIRST* in Alabama Slack to handle remote Q&A that day, so make sure to sign up if you haven't [using this link](). Be aware that the link will not be available on GitHub. If you need help getting started with Slack, you can find information [at this link](https://get.slack.help/hc/en-us/categories/360000049043).

Finally, our *FIRST* Senior Mentor, Jamie McClung, will be supporting on-site, so there will be several resources available to you that day!

The event will be free for coaches to attend, and we will be sending the registration/RSVP information starting August 1.


## *FIRST* LEGO League Jr. Discovery Edition

*FIRST* offers a new program that's a little different from the current progression called *FIRST* LEGO League Jr. Discovery Edition. This program is **not** event-driven, so students will not attend events organized by the region like they do for FLL and FLL Jr. This program is targeted toward classrooms of students ages 4 to 6. 

Please be aware that this program is only available through Class Pack, not as individual teams. You can learn more about Class Pack [here](https://info.firstinspires.org/stem-education-class-packs).

You can learn more about FLL Jr. Discovery Edition on [the website](http://www.firstlegoleaguejr.org/discovery). We are working on securing a challenge set for coaches to see at the Coaches Workshop in August.


## Closing

Don't forget to complete registration with payment as soon as possible (once any grants you're expecting come in!) so you're ready to go!

Let us know if you have any questions or are running into any problems at FLL@FIRSTinAlabama.org.

Best,

Drew and Taylor Whisenant

<sup>\*</sup> - *FIRST* Friends is not actually a trademark.