Hello!

I hope everyone is having a pleasant summer! We are getting ready for the 2019-2020 seasons CITY SHAPER (FIRST LEGO League) and BOOMTOWN BUILD (FIRST LEGO League Jr.), and we wanted to take care of a few housekeeping items. 

If you're no longer affiliated, please read through this email and take the actions recommended.

## Past Emails and FAQ

"I know I saw that in an email, but I can't find it!"

In an effort to solve this age-old problem, you can find all emails from the current season on our GitHub! The link for the CITY SHAPER and BOOMTOWN BUILD emails can be found [here](https://github.com/drewwhis/alabama-first-lego-league/tree/master/2019-2020/email-blasts).

We also have a FAQ section on the GitHub located [here](https://github.com/drewwhis/alabama-first-lego-league/wiki/Frequently-Asked-Questions). I'm currently updating a few, but if you have a question that isn't covered, let us know, and we might add it!

## The Season

"How do we get started for this year?"

The FIRST LEGO League and FIRST LEGO League Jr. seasons will officially kick off on August 1, so stay tuned! We will have more season-specific information as that date approaches.

For now, please remember that every FLL team requires:
- Two Lead Coach/Mentors registered in the FIRST Dashboard.
- Two to ten students between the ages of 9 and 14. Students who are not fifteen (15) as of January 1, 2019 are eligible.

Every FLL Jr. team requires:
- Two Lead Coach/Mentors registered in the FIRST Dashboard.
- Two to six students between the ages of 6 and 10. Students who are not ten (10) as of January 1, 2019 are eligible.

I recommend checking the [Challenge and Season Info FLL page](https://www.firstinspires.org/robotics/fll/challenge-and-season-info) or the [Challenge and Season Info FLL Jr. page](https://www.firstinspires.org/robotics/flljr/challenge-and-season) regularly for updates and clarification.

## The Roles

"What role do I need to select in the Dashboard?"

There's always a little confusion about the roles on a team, so I want to clarify those.

A **Team Admin** *can* receive some logistic information about a team and pay registration fees for FIRST, but they do **not** receive all information, nor are they recognized as official decision-makers for a team. A team may have a Team Admin, but they are **not** required.

A **Lead Coach/Mentor** receives *every* communication and can pay registration fees for FIRST. They are also recognized as an official decision-maker for a team.

If you have multiple teams and are responsible for managing the teams, you should be a **Lead Coach/Mentor** for **each** team - do not use the Team Admin role.

In short, whoever needs to know when events are, what to bring to events, etc., should be a **Lead Coach/Mentor**. 

A team requires two Lead Coach/Mentors over the age of 18 who have passed the Youth Protection Policy screening program in order to be considered a fully registered team.

## Adding a Team

"I've got my team from last year, but I have so many students I need a second team!"

You can add a team in your Dashboard using [this link](https://my.firstinspires.org/Dashboard/). Once you're there, make sure you're in the **MY TEAMS** section. From there, click on the **CREATE NEW TEAM(S)** button to add another FIRST LEGO League, FIRST LEGO League Jr., or any program team.

You can be a coach for multiple teams, and it is fine for all your teams to have the same contacts.

This information is also available in the FAQ on GitHub.

## Inviting a Replacement

"I'm not going to be with a team anymore, but I know who my replacement is!"

We want to make sure everyone who needs our information gets it in a timely fashion. Your Dashboard can be used to invite a replacement to the team! To start, go to the Dashboard using [this link](https://my.firstinspires.org/Dashboard/).

In the **MY TEAMS** section, find the team you're inviting a replacement for and make sure it's expanded. If you can see the **Contact Options** button, click on it then on the **Manage Contacts** option that appears.

Under **TEAM LEADERSHIP** and **Primary Contacts**, you should see your name. To the right, you should see **Options**. Clicking on it and selecting **Invite Replacement** will allow you to invite your replacement. They will receive an email to accept. 

We ask that you maintain contact with your replacement until they are successfully added to the team.

This information is also available in the FAQ on GitHub.

## Leaving a Team

"I'm not affiliated with this team anymore, and I need to leave it."

Leaving a team is as easy as inviting a replacement. Follow the steps in **Inviting a Replacement**, but instead of clicking on **Invite Replacement**, select **Retire from Team**.

Please be aware that if a team no longer has any primary contacts, we can't guarantee the ability to add one back, so it's always better to invite a replacement if possible.

This information is also available in the FAQ on GitHub.

## Slack

"I'd like to participate in real-time talks with the **Partners** (Drew and Taylor) and **other coaches**."

Well then you're in luck! You can join our Slack group by clicking on this link and signing up. Please be aware that the link is **not** be published on GitHub.

You can learn more about using Slack [here](https://get.slack.help/hc/en-us/categories/360000049043). Slack is available through the web and as an application for macOS, Windows, iOS, and Android (and in beta on Linux). 

When you join our Slack, you'll automatically join the **#first-general** channel. 

For FLL specific discussions, you should join the **#fll-general**, **#fll-robot-game**, and **#fll-project** channels. For FLL Jr. specific discussions, you should join **#flljr-general**. There is also a **#random** channel for off-topic conversations.

If you're no longer affiliated, you can leave the Slack workspace by deactivating your account for the FIRST in Alabama workspace [(instructions here)](https://get.slack.help/hc/en-us/articles/203953146-Deactivate-your-Slack-account).


## Closing

I know this is a lot of information not specific to this season, but I hope it gets everyone squared away. Please make sure to check the GitHub link for past emails to make sure you didn't miss anything!

If you have any questions, feel free to reach out to us at FLL@FIRSTinAlabama.org.

Best,

Drew and Taylor Whisenant
