Hello teams!

## **CRITICAL** Deadlines

Don't forget that we will **close FLL team registrations** on **this** Friday, September 20, 2019. If you **have not paid** the \$225 fee by this Friday, your team will not be able to participate in the CITY SHAPER season.

We will open qualifier registration the next day (Saturday, September 21, 2019). You will have a list of all qualifiers **no later than** Saturday. We will leave registation open for one week.

**We will only send a registration link to the person listed at the team's Lead Coach/Mentor 1**. If you are listed as Lead Coach/Mentor 2 or if you are the Team Adminstrator (and not the Lead Coach/Mentor 1), you will **not** get this email. This is to prevent multiple people registering the same time. **Please** coordinate with your other contacts to make sure there is a registration plan in place for each of your teams.

Please be aware that these deadlines are for *FIRST*<sup>&reg;</sup> LEGO<sup>&reg;</sup> League (FLL) and do not apply to *FIRST*<sup>&reg;</sup> LEGO<sup>&reg;</sup> League Jr. (FLL Jr.).


## Coaches Mechanical and Programming Workshop

The Coaches Mechanical and Programming Workshop will be held this Saturday, September 21, 2019 at the University of Alabama in Huntsville from 1:00 PM to 4:00 PM. We will send directions and room numbers on Thursday of this week.

We ask that everyone attending in-person register in advance through the [EventBrite page](https://www.eventbrite.com/e/alabama-coaches-technical-workshop-tickets-71315902785) by Wednesday, September 18 so that we can plan our numbers. We still have plenty of room, so please sign up soon!

We do not anticipate being able to stream the sessions due to the nature of the event, but we will post any materials to the GitHub that we can after the event.

If you plan on attending, here are some things you might consider bringing:
- A charged EV3 (with parts)
- A charged WeDo (if you plan on participating in the single WeDo session)
- A laptop you can install software on (a personal Windows or Mac computer) OR a device with the LEGO software already installed
- A microSD card (if you plan on participating in any sessions on Python) 


## Grant Opportunity

The AUVSI Pathfinder Chapter has grants available for K-12 robotics teams this year. 

Any group interested in applying for the grant *can present a proposal on **Wednesday, September 25**. The presentations will begin at **5:30 PM** at the **University of Alabama in Huntsville**. The meeting will be held in the **Wernher von Braun Research Hall in room M50**. On a [map of campus](https://www.uah.edu/map), the building is \#34.

There will be a sign-up sheet in the room, and groups will sign up to present in order. Presentations should last **no longer** than five minutes. 

You should email your final presentation to grants@auvsipathfinder.com ahead of time. If you make any changes after sending it, you should bring a copy on a USB stick. You will also need to bring four paper copies of the presentation to the event.

Your presentation must include:
- Team Name
- Team Number
- Contact Information
- Who to make a check out to
- The amount of funds requested
- Breakdown and description of how funds will be used

Awards will be distributed on Octover 2 at the same time and location. You do not have to be present for the award, but make sure you have provided a good mailing address.

If you have any questions about the grant, contact grants@auvsipathfinder.com.

Please be aware, FLL teams, that you will not receive this grant in time for team registration, as our region will be closed to teams by the time you present. However, there are other ways you could use the funds, such as qualifier registration costs.


## Slack

One tool we use throughout the year is the *FIRST*<sup>&reg;</sup> in Alabama Slack Workspace. It's a great way to connect with the Partners, the *FIRST*<sup>&reg;</sup> Senior Mentor, and other coaches. We also use it to take remote attendee questions during our workshops.

You can join the Slack using [our invite link](https://join.slack.com/t/firstinalabama/shared_invite/enQtNDYxMTEzMTcwOTk0LWQzYmFjM2Q5MGNjNjFlM2M5ZTY4ZGNmM2VmY2Y0OTUwNTRiMjRlYTUwYTI2YTdjNGM0ZWZlYjM3MGVmNDY4YmY).

Once you've joined, make sure to follow the appropriate channels (we have multiple channels for FLL and a separate channel for FLL Jr.). 

To learn more about using Slack, you can check out [their documentation](https://get.slack.help/hc/en-us/categories/360000049043).


## Closing

Please remember that you can always consult:
- [Past Emails](https://github.com/drewwhis/first-in-alabama/tree/master/2019-2020/email-blasts)
- [FAQ](https://github.com/drewwhis/first-in-alabama/wiki/Frequently-Asked-Questions)
- [FLL Resources](https://github.com/drewwhis/first-in-alabama/tree/master/2019-2020/fll)
- [FLL Jr. Resources](https://github.com/drewwhis/first-in-alabama/tree/master/2019-2020/flljr)
- [Event Dates](https://github.com/drewwhis/first-in-alabama/blob/main/2019-2020/event-dates.md)

If you have any questions or issues, please let us know at FLL@FIRSTinAlabama.org.

Best,

Drew and Taylor Whisenant