Good evening, Coaches!

Registration for the FIRST LEGO League CITY SHAPER<sup>SM</sup> Challenge is open! :-)

Here is our general season timeline. We will send more specific info about event dates as we confirm them.
- August 1, 2019: CITY SHAPER<sup>SM</sup> Global Challenge Release
- August 2019 to April 2020: Event Season
- November 2019 to February 2020: FIRST LEGO League Competitions in Alabama (Qualifiers and Championship)
- April 15-18, 2020: FIRST LEGO League World Festival in Houston, Texas

Here is an updated list of costs for running a team. I have included some information about TVA grants and AIAA grants below.
- Team Registration (\$225)
- CITY SHAPER<sup>SM</sup> Challenge Set (\$75)
- LEGO MINDSTORMS EV3 Kit (\$496) or SPIKE Prime Set (\$410) (either is acceptable and can be resused year-to-year)
- Qualifier Registration (\$100)
- Alabama Championship Registration (\$100)

FIRST is currently working with TVA to secure funding for the \$225 registration fee for teams located in TVA service areas. Teams have the option of registering and paying themselves or can wait until TVA funding has been secured and register at that point.  If they register and pay themselves, there is no option for reimbursement. I will update you as soon as I am notified about the timeline and process for these grants.

This year, AIAA is offering $500 grants for new teams and \$250 grants for existing teams. These grants are for any teams in Alabama, and they are nonrestrictive grants. The only requirement is that an AIAA member coaches or mentors the team. AIAA memberships are free for teachers. Visit aiaa.org/FIRSTGrants for more information. This grant application deadline is August 2.

Please let me know if you have any questions or need any help!

Best,

Taylor and Drew Whisenant

FLL@FIRSTinAlabama.org
