Hello teams!

I know that some of you have received *several* emails over the past week (to say the least). With this email, we are back on our regular, weekly email schedule.

## Alabama Coaches Technical Workshop

We would like to thank everyone who came to the Technical Workshop yesterday! After hosting the kickoff workshop (focusing on the logistics of FLL and FLL Jr.) for two years, we wanted to offer a chance to learn some more technical concepts for new and experienced coaches.

We had a lot of fun putting it together, and we think that our attendees got a lot out of the sessions. We will have any slides posted on the GitHub, hopefully by next week.

We are currently looking at offering another technical workshop, but it's too early to say when that would be. It may be offered near the end of the academic year (to prepare for next year) rather than during the current season, but be on the lookout for details (and make sure to ask those who attended about their experiences!).


## *FIRST*<sup>&reg;</sup> LEGO<sup>&reg;</sup> League Qualifier Registration

We are currently in the process of collecting Qualifier Registration information from all teams. At the time of writing, we have received the registrations of XX teams with YY to go. The deadline to register is **this Friday at 11:59 PM CDT** (a previous email specified CST, but we're still on CDT).

Teams that have not completed the form by Wednesday will be reminded. Be aware that only teams registered with *FIRST*<sup>&reg;</sup> are eligible to register for qualifiers.

Once qualifier registration is complete, *FIRST*<sup>&reg;</sup> LEGO<sup>&reg;</sup> League teams that **are not registered** will no longer receive the weekly emails. Those emails will still be posted in the GitHub, available for viewing, but you will not receive them directly.


## *FIRST*<sup>&reg;</sup> LEGO<sup>&reg;</sup> League Challenge Rules

As a reminder, all FLL teams should be checking the [Challenge Updates](https://firstinspiresst01.blob.core.windows.net/fll/2020/city-shaper-challenge-updates.pdf) at least weekly. 

In addition to the Slack workspace that includes *FIRST*<sup>&reg;</sup> in Alabama staff and coaches, FLL teams have access to a forum from *FIRST*<sup>&reg;</sup>.

The forum is located [here](https://forums.usfirst.org/forum/general-discussions/first-programs/first-lego-league). You can find questions from other coaches, or ask your own! When asking questions, try your best to cite specific rules and examples so that those answering (including the Global Head Referees!) can provide you the best possible answers.

## Volunteering

We have a list of qualifier sites posted on our [events page](../event-dates.md). Our events are always in need of volunteers, and volunteering is a great way to learn more about the programs.

We have roles for adults and children of many experience levels. You can learn more about the volunteer roles from [this document](https://www.firstinspires.org/sites/default/files/uploads/resource_library/volunteer/first-lego-league-volunteer-role-descriptions.pdf).

If you'd like to volunteer at an event, you can sign up in your Dashboard! We have information about volunteering on our [FAQ](https://github.com/drewwhis/first-in-alabama/wiki/Becoming-an-Event-Volunteer).


## *FIRST*<sup>&reg;</sup> LEGO<sup>&reg;</sup> League Jr. Expo Registration

Just a quick reminder that the registration for the *FIRST*<sup>&reg;</sup> LEGO<sup>&reg;</sup> League Jr. Alabama Expo will open in **January 2020**. The event is open to all registered FLL Jr. teams in Alabama, and the cost to register is \$0.

The event will be held April 4, 2020 at the von Braun Center in Huntsville, Alabama.


## Other Events

Don't forget that we have a scrimmage in late October and a table test event in early November that FLL teams can register for.

We will send information on eligiblity and registration for these events once we have completed qualifier registration.

As a reminder, teams attending the qualifier at UAH on November 16 will have priority status to register for the scrimmage event.


## Slack

One tool we use throughout the year is the *FIRST*<sup>&reg;</sup> in Alabama Slack Workspace. It's a great way to connect with the Partners, the *FIRST*<sup>&reg;</sup> Senior Mentor, and other coaches. We also use it to take remote attendee questions during our workshops.

You can join the Slack using [our invite link](https://join.slack.com/t/firstinalabama/shared_invite/enQtNDYxMTEzMTcwOTk0LWQzYmFjM2Q5MGNjNjFlM2M5ZTY4ZGNmM2VmY2Y0OTUwNTRiMjRlYTUwYTI2YTdjNGM0ZWZlYjM3MGVmNDY4YmY).

Once you've joined, make sure to follow the appropriate channels (we have multiple channels for FLL and a separate channel for FLL Jr.). 

To learn more about using Slack, you can check out [their documentation](https://get.slack.help/hc/en-us/categories/360000049043).


## Closing

Please remember that you can always consult:
- [Past Emails](https://github.com/drewwhis/first-in-alabama/tree/main/first-lego-league/2019-2020/email-blasts)
- [FAQ](https://github.com/drewwhis/first-in-alabama/wiki/Frequently-Asked-Questions)
- [FLL Resources](https://github.com/drewwhis/first-in-alabama/tree/main/first-lego-league/2019-2020/fll)
- [FLL Jr. Resources](https://github.com/drewwhis/first-in-alabama/tree/main/first-lego-league/2019-2020/flljr)
- [Event Dates](https://github.com/drewwhis/first-in-alabama/blob/main/first-lego-league/2019-2020/event-dates.md)

If you have any questions or issues, please let us know at FLL@FIRSTinAlabama.org.

Best,

Drew and Taylor Whisenant