Hello teams!

We hope you've had some time to review the Challenge Release documents. Remember, the sooner your team is officially registered, the sooner you can receive your season products from *FIRST*<sup>&reg;</sup>. Remember to check [past emails](https://github.com/drewwhis/first-in-alabama/tree/main/first-lego-league/2019-2020/email-blasts) and the [FAQ](https://github.com/drewwhis/first-in-alabama/wiki/Frequently-Asked-Questions) for any questions, first.

FLL Coaches: Make sure you're checking the [Challenge Updates](https://firstinspiresst01.blob.core.windows.net/fll/2020/city-shaper-challenge-updates.pdf) at least weekly!

All Coaches: Don't forget the stream on the [*FIRST* Twitch](https://www.twitch.tv/firstinspires) on **August 15** at **11 AM CDT**.


## Registration and Product

In order to be eligible for competitions and ordering products, your team must have paid the registration fee in the [*FIRST*<sup>&reg;</sup> Dashboard](https://www.firstinspires.org).

For *FIRST*<sup>&reg;</sup> LEGO<sup>&reg;</sup> League Jr., this is the \$99 fee (plus applicable shipping and taxes) and includes your Inspire Set.

For *FIRST*<sup>&reg;</sup> LEGO<sup>&reg;</sup> League, this is the \$225 fee (plus applicable shipping and taxes). Unlike last year, the registration fee does **not** include your Challenge Set, which is ordered separately for \$75 (plus applicable shipping and taxes).

If you have been awarded a grant in your Dashboard for either fee, you must still go through the checkout process to apply the funds toward those purchases. Once you've paid fees, you should see a **Payment/Product (Receipt)** value listed under the **Team Finances** section of a team in your Dashboard. The sooner these fees are paid, the sooner you will receive your products.


## AMSTI Grant New Deadline

For those following the AMSTI Grant, the deadline to apply has been pushed back to September 30. If you plan on using the grant for FLL or FLL Jr., make sure you're paying attention to what it can be used for, when the money would be available, and when you would need to purchase items. It *might* be a good idea to use the AMSTI grant toward things you would like to use *next* year rather than this year, given the timeline.


## Resources

Last week, we shared links to the official resources for [FLL Jr.](https://github.com/drewwhis/first-in-alabama/blob/main/first-lego-league/2019-2020/flljr/documents.md) and [FLL](https://github.com/drewwhis/first-in-alabama/blob/main/first-lego-league/2019-2020/fll/documents.md); make sure to keep checking those locations, as we will be adding more links as they become available.

We're also collecting unofficial resources - resources not provided by *FIRST* or LEGO. They are available for [FLL Jr.](https://github.com/drewwhis/first-in-alabama/blob/main/first-lego-league/2019-2020/flljr/unofficial-resources.md) and [FLL](https://github.com/drewwhis/first-in-alabama/blob/main/first-lego-league/2019-2020/fll/unofficial-resources.md). If you have a suggested resource you'd like to share, let us know!


## Coaches Workshop

Don't forget our Coaches Workshop will be held on August 24th from 1:00 PM to 4:00 PM (CDT) at ADTRAN in Huntsville, AL! This workshop will address topics in FLL and FLL Jr. We will note that while we will touch on some technical topics (such as how to program the robot), we will not be going into much depth on those - just enough to get started (see later sections for more details), but we will go over other topics more in-depth, such as judging, team logistics, the Challenge and Inspire Sets, etc.

We're asking anyone who might attend (either in-person or remotely) to fill out our [topic survey](). If you think you might attend in-person, we ask that you register using [our EventBrite page](). Be aware that these links are disabled on GitHub.

To aid in planning, please fill out the survey and register ASAP. Both will close on August 16, **this Friday**. We will have directions and other information in next week's email.


## Slack

One tool we use throughout the year is the *FIRST*<sup>&reg;</sup> in Alabama Slack Workspace. It's a great way to connect with the Partners, the *FIRST*<sup>&reg;</sup> Senior Mentor, and other coaches. We'll also use it to take remote attendee questions during the workshop.

You can join the Slack using [our invite link](). Be aware that the invite link is disabled on GitHub.

Once you've joined, make sure to follow the appropriate channels (we have multiple channels for FLL and a separate channel for FLL Jr.). To learn more about using Slack, you can check out [their documentation](https://get.slack.help/hc/en-us/categories/360000049043).


## Coach and Team Events

We plan to have all of our FLL qualifiers announced by September 1, but the four dates events will be held on have been posted on our [events](https://github.com/drewwhis/first-in-alabama/blob/main/first-lego-league/2019-2020/event-dates.md) page.

In the meantime, we've got two more non-competitive events planned that we can share some information about.

We will be hosted a Mechanical and Programming Workshop for **Coaches** in late September (date to follow). This will focus more on building and programming robots, and we plan to offer for a variety of experience levels. This event will be held at ADTRAN in Huntsville, and we will be looking at options to stream the sessions (like for the Coaches Workshop). This will be open for both FLL Jr. and FLL, with more emphasis on FLL.

We also have a **team** event planned! We will host a **Fun** Scrimmage Event in late October (date to follow), also at ADTRAN in Huntsville. Once we have more information, we will share information on how to register, as we will have a limited capacity of about 10 teams (but spectators are welcome). We are also looking at coordinating satellite locations so that more teams can get involved. We will be offering priority scrimmage registration to teams attending a November qualifier date. This event will be open for FLL.

Please keep these events in mind as you plan the next couple of months.


## *FIRST*<sup>&reg;</sup> Tech Challenge Kickoff Event

The FTC Kickoff event is being hosted by FTC Team 13808 The Time Travelers on September 7th in Huntsville, Alabama, from 10:00 AM to 2:00 PM.

We are looking for FLL and FLL Jr. teams to attend the event to show off what they're working on and have worked on! They have booth space available for all *FIRST*<sup>&reg;</sup> programs, so if you're interested, sign up [here](https://firstinalabama.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=f0cf78c5a9c06d79cd683a8ae&id=d5017529a4&e=fb065b58de).

We would love for both programs to be represented (especially with FTC and FRC attending our Coaches Workshop), so please sign up!


## Closing

Please let us know if you have any questions or run into any issues by emailing us at FLL@FIRSTinAlabama.org.

Best,

Drew and Taylor Whisenant