Hello teams!

We hope you enjoyed the long Labor Day Weekend!


## Qualifier Registration

For our *FIRST*<sup>&reg;</sup> LEGO<sup>&reg;</sup> League teams, we'd like to explain some deadlines.

We will **close team registrations** on Friday, September 20, 2019. If you **have not paid** the \$225 fee by this date, your team will not be able to participate in the CITY SHAPER season.

We will open qualifier registration the next day (Saturday, September 21, 2019). You will have a list of all qualifiers **no later than** that date. We will leave registation open for one week.

**Qualifier registration will close** on Friday, September 27, 2019. We will inform teams of their placements by Monday, September 30, 2019.

**We will only send a registration link to the person listed at the team's Lead Coach/Mentor 1**. If you are listed as Lead Coach/Mentor 2 or if you are the Team Adminstrator (and not the Lead Coach/Mentor 1), you will **not** get this email. This is to prevent multiple people registering the same time. **Please** coordinate with your other contacts to make sure there is a registration plan in place for each of your teams.

Because these dates are so late in September, we will **not** have any qualifiers on November 6, to allow as much time as possible for teams to arrange transportation. This change has been reflected on the Events page.

To clarify, qualifiers will be held on November 16, December 7, and December 14, and we will announce locations in time for registration.


## Coaches Mechanical and Programming Workshop

Our workshop with an emphasis on robot mechanics and programming will be held on September 21, 2019 at the University of Alabama in Huntsville. This workshop is targeted toward coaches, and we plan to offer multiple tracks (Beginner, Intermediate, and Advanced) with multiple sessions in each.

The Beginner Track will include a first session directed toward the use of the LEGO WeDo 2.0 for *FIRST*<sup>&reg;</sup> LEGO<sup>&reg;</sup> League Jr. teams and as a tool for *FIRST*<sup>&reg;</sup> LEGO<sup>&reg;</sup> League teams. The rest of the Beginner Track and all of the Intermediate and Advanced Tracks will be focused on *FIRST*<sup>&reg;</sup> LEGO<sup>&reg;</sup> League.

You will have some time on the day of the event to look over the sessions and switch among tracks as the day goes on.

We ask that everyone attending in-person register in advance through the [EventBrite page](https://www.eventbrite.com/e/alabama-coaches-technical-workshop-tickets-71315902785) by Wednesday, September 18 so that we can plan our numbers. We are going to look into streaming the sessions again, but as this event is more complex than the last one, we aren't promising that a live stream or recording will be available.

If you have any specific topics you'd like addressed, please submit them through our [Google Form](https://forms.gle/hdED8KZd3pJPE1Ly8) by Saturday, September 14.


## Participation Rules

We've had a few people ask for clarification the participation rules for teams and team members, especially for *FIRST*<sup>&reg;</sup> LEGO<sup>&reg;</sup> League.

For FLL **students**:
- Students should be between the ages of 9 and 14.
- If a student is *younger* than 9, they can still participate if you're willing (it's a soft restriction).
- If a student is 15 but he or she was 14 **on January 1, 2019**, they are eligible.

For FLL Jr., the ages are 6 to 10, but the same guidelines apply.

For FLL **teams**:
- Teams can have up to 10 students **total participate all season**.
- Back-ups and alternates **are included** in that total. It is not just the students who attend events or who are at a single meeting. Any student who **contributes** is a team member.
- If you have more than the limit of students, you need to have multiple teams or reduce your numbers.

If your team is found to have more than the allowed number of total participating students throughout the season, your team would be disqualified from awards and advancement at any event you attend, per the official *FIRST*<sup>&reg;</sup> participation rules.

Please keep these rules in mind as you go through your season so that we can guarantee the best event experience for all of our teams.


## Slack

One tool we use throughout the year is the *FIRST*<sup>&reg;</sup> in Alabama Slack Workspace. It's a great way to connect with the Partners, the *FIRST*<sup>&reg;</sup> Senior Mentor, and other coaches. We also use it to take remote attendee questions during our workshops.

You can join the Slack using [our invite link](https://join.slack.com/t/firstinalabama/shared_invite/enQtNDYxMTEzMTcwOTk0LWQzYmFjM2Q5MGNjNjFlM2M5ZTY4ZGNmM2VmY2Y0OTUwNTRiMjRlYTUwYTI2YTdjNGM0ZWZlYjM3MGVmNDY4YmY).

Once you've joined, make sure to follow the appropriate channels (we have multiple channels for FLL and a separate channel for FLL Jr.). 

To learn more about using Slack, you can check out [their documentation](https://get.slack.help/hc/en-us/categories/360000049043).


## Closing

Please remember that you can always consult:
- [Past Emails](https://github.com/drewwhis/first-in-alabama/tree/main/first-lego-league/2019-2020/email-blasts)
- [FAQ](https://github.com/drewwhis/first-in-alabama/wiki/Frequently-Asked-Questions)
- [FLL Resources](https://github.com/drewwhis/first-in-alabama/tree/main/first-lego-league/2019-2020/fll)
- [FLL Jr. Resources](https://github.com/drewwhis/first-in-alabama/tree/main/first-lego-league/2019-2020/flljr)
- [Event Dates](https://github.com/drewwhis/first-in-alabama/blob/main/first-lego-league/2019-2020/event-dates.md)

If you have any questions or issues, please let us know at FLL@FIRSTinAlabama.org.

Best,

Drew and Taylor Whisenant