Hello teams!

We hope you're as excited for the FIRST&reg; LEGO&reg; League and FIRST&reg; LEGO&reg; League Jr. upcoming seasons CITY SHAPER<sup>SM</sup> and BOOMTOWN BUILD<sup>SM</sup> as we are! We plan on sending weekly messages to all Lead Coach/Mentors registered with FIRST so that everyone is up to speed. We also maintain a list of past emails [here](https://github.com/drewwhis/first-in-alabama/tree/main/first-lego-league/2019-2020/email-blasts) in case you missed any, as well as a Frequently Asked Questions section [here](https://github.com/drewwhis/first-in-alabama/wiki/Frequently-Asked-Questions). If you have a question not covered in the emails or FAQ, let us know (and we might add it to the list!).

## People

For our new teams, there are a few names you'll see pop up in the Alabama Region. 

For FIRST LEGO League, Taylor Whisenant and Drew Whisenant are the Partners, responsible for the program overall in the state. Drew Whisenant also serves as the Judge Advisor, responsible for the judging process at all of our events. Barney Holt is our Head Referee, the ultimate source of robot game interpretation in the state.

FIRST LEGO League Jr. is non-competitive, so the only names you'll see frequently are Taylor Whisenant and Drew Whisenant, who also serve as the Partners for that program.

## Coaches Workshop

If you're new to this and totally freaked out or a veteran coach (who may or may not *still* be freaked out), we're planning on hosting our Coaches Workshop for the second year! This event is for coaches of FIRST LEGO League and FIRST LEGO League Jr. teams.

We will hosting the event on August 24, 2019 at ADTRAN in Huntsville, AL. Like last year, we will be making efforts to stream whatever we can online. We will incorporate more breakout sessions and tracks this year (so you can tailor the workshop to your experience level), so it might be more difficult to stream *everything*, but we will do what we can. 

Like last year, we plan to have a full set of mission models (with mat!) for FIRST LEGO League coaches and an Inspire Set for FIRST LEGO League Jr. coaches prepared. 

We will also make use of the FIRST in Alabama Slack for remote discussions during the event, so if you'd like to join that, check out [this message](https://github.com/drewwhis/first-in-alabama/blob/main/first-lego-league/2019-2020/email-blasts/2019-06-23.md) for details on how to join and use the Slack and [this link]() to join (note that the link will be unavailable on the GitHub).

We will have more information about the time and registration for the event in late July to early August, but please be aware that this is an event **for coaches**. We do not have the capacity or support to include students in this particular session, but we are working on other options for them.

## Program Events

Being non-competitive, FIRST LEGO League Jr. does not have a tournament structure. Instead, teams attend Expos to show off what they've learned and demonstrate their models! Teams can attend local Expos, host their own Expos, and/or attend the FIRST LEGO League Jr. Alabama Expo, our region's official Expo. All teams will be invited to register for the Expo to be held on April 4, 2020 at the von Braun Center in Huntsville, AL. Expect registration information in early 2020.

FIRST LEGO League teams will compete in a tournament structure. **All** registered teams will compete in a qualifying tournament event of up to 12 teams. From those tournaments, **some** teams will advance to the FIRST&reg; LEGO&reg; League Alabama Championship. We will have more information about exactly how many teams advance and how those teams are chosen in August after the challenge release. Some teams from the championship will receive invitations to compete in open and invitational tournaments in the post-season, including our First Place Champion's Award team who will be invited to the FIRST&reg; LEGO&reg; League World Festival in Houston, Texas.

At this moment, we have the following dates on our calendar for FIRST LEGO League. We do **not** have specific event locations ready to announce, yet, and we **cannot** guarantee spots at specific events or on specific dates.
- Qualifying Events
    - November 09, 2019
    - November 16, 2019
    - December 07, 2019
    - December 14, 2019
- FIRST&reg; LEGO&reg; League Alabama Championship
    - January 25, 2020

We hope to complete event registration by **mid-September** to allow time for teams to arrange transportation. We **strongly** encourage teams to plan to attend a November event, at least as a back-up, because it is possible, even likely, that you will not get a spot in one of the December events, remembering that each event is **strictly** limited to 12 teams.


## Fees and Grants

In order to register for an event, you must complete team registration, including payment, through FIRST. **You will not be allowed to register for any event until FIRST confirms your registration.** This applies both to FIRST LEGO League Jr. and FIRST LEGO League.

There are a few grant opportunities that we can share with teams at this time. Be aware, though, that some grants cover **only** registration, and they will **not** reimburse that fee if you have paid for registration prior to receiving a grant.

[AIAA](https://www.aiaa.org/home/get-involved/students-educators/first-lego-league-grant-program) has grants available for FIRST LEGO League teams, both veteran and rookie. This grant is **not** restricted to FIRST registration and can be used however the team needs.

FIRST is in the process of securing TVA funding for **both** FIRST LEGO League and FIRST LEGO League Jr. teams in the TVA service area. This grant could be used **only for registration**. If you plan to apply for this grant, you **cannot** receive it if you have already paid your registration fee to FIRST. We do not have application information at this time but hope to in the coming weeks (as many of you are aware, today marks the end of the fiscal year for *many* entities).

## Closing

We hope this gives you a general outline for what to expect over the next few months. We've gone into as much detail as we can at this time, and hope to provide more information soon. We will do our best not to be repetitive in subsequent messages (to keep these short!).

If you have any questions, please contact us at FLL@FIRSTinAlabama.org.

Best,

Drew and Taylor Whisenant