Hello teams!

We've had a week off of messages for our *FIRST*<sup>&reg;</sup> LEGO<sup>&reg;</sup> League teams and a couple for our *FIRST*<sup>&reg;</sup> LEGO<sup>&reg;</sup> League Jr. teams.

## Dr. Woodie Flowers

We are saddened to share with you the news of the passing of Dr. Woodie Flowers. You can read *FIRST*'s message [here](https://www.firstinspires.org/community/inspire/dr-woodie-flowers). His impact on *FIRST*<sup>&reg;</sup> and the world of competitive scholastic robotics cannot be overstated, and he will be sorely missed by our community and many others.

We are currently considering ways to honor Woodie's life, memory, and legacy at our qualifiers and the state championship.


## FLL Qualifiers

All teams have been assigned to their qualifiers. If you do not know your event, check with your other contacts or let us know. We expect qualifier managers to contact their teams over the next week with basic event information (including times and payment details). We will be sending them the information they need in the next few days.

In the meantime, make sure you have read the [Judging and Advancement](https://github.com/drewwhis/first-in-alabama/blob/main/first-lego-league/2019-2020/fll/judging-and-advancement.md) page so you know what to expect on the day of the event. You should also consult the [Challenge Updates](https://firstinspiresst01.blob.core.windows.net/fll/2020/city-shaper-challenge-updates.pdf) if you haven't looked lately. **We expect new updates sometime this week**.

If you have questions, please let us know.


## FLL Jr. Alabama Expo

We will open registration for the Alabama Expo in January. All FLL Jr. teams will be eligible to attend, and the registration fee is $0. The event will be held April 4, 2020 at the von Braun Center in Huntsville, AL.

If you haven't started an FLL Jr. team yet but would like to, you still have plenty of time!


## FLL Scrimmage 

Due to scheduling conflicts, we have had to cancel the scrimmage event. This was originally to be a small event to support up to 10 teams, so we don't think it will be a *huge* loss, but we do apologize for the inconvenience.

To make up for the loss of the event, I will be hosting a remote Question and Answer session on October 26, where anyone can log into the video chat and ask questions. I'll also try to go over a few points that I think teams could benefit from. I'll record it and post it after for viewing. Details will follow next week.


## FLL Table Test

We **are** still hosting our Table Test! This will be an opportunity for your teams to try a robot run on a *different* table and challenge set than you're practicing with! Remember that your designs should account for variability!

We will send sign-up information next week. The event will be held at ADTRAN in Huntsville, AL, from 9:00 to 4:00 PM. Teams will sign up for a half-hour block of time, and we can support four teams in each block.

We are working now to confirm our state head referee and our qualifier head referees for the event. We will also look into streaming the event and broadcasting any big questions that come up!


## Closing

Please remember that you can always consult:
- [Past Emails](https://github.com/drewwhis/first-in-alabama/tree/main/first-lego-league/2019-2020/email-blasts)
- [FAQ](https://github.com/drewwhis/first-in-alabama/wiki/Frequently-Asked-Questions)
- [FLL Resources](https://github.com/drewwhis/first-in-alabama/tree/main/first-lego-league/2019-2020/fll)
- [FLL Jr. Resources](https://github.com/drewwhis/first-in-alabama/tree/main/first-lego-league/2019-2020/flljr)
- [Event Dates](https://github.com/drewwhis/first-in-alabama/blob/main/first-lego-league/2019-2020/event-dates.md)

If you have any questions or issues, please let us know at FLL@FIRSTinAlabama.org.

Best,

Drew and Taylor Whisenant