Hello everyone!

**[TL;DR](https://en.wiktionary.org/wiki/tl;dr#English): DO NOT UPGRADE TO MACOS CATALINA!**  

This message is for those of you using any laptop or desktop computer made by Apple (not iPads) for robot programming. If you do not use an iMac, Mac Pro, or some form of MacBook, you can ignore this message.

Apple is scheduled to release a new version of the macOS operating system. The Catalina release (macOS 10.15) is expected in October (no date has been announced as of today).

Catalina removes support for older 32-bit applications, only running 64-bit software. Simply put, this means that there are several pieces of software that **will not work** on macOS Catalina.

Please be aware that one of these programs is the LEGO MINDSTORMS EV3 software. If you use an Apple computer to program the EV3 using the MINDSTORMS software, upgrading to Catalina will make it so that you **cannot program** your robots.

LEGO is planning to release a new software package in November that fixes this problem. In the meantime, you should **not upgrade** macOS. You can check your version of macOS by clicking on the Apple icon and selecting "About This Mac." 

If the name is **not** Catalina, then you're good. If the version's second set of numbers (10.**XX**) is **not** 15, then you're good. For example, Mojave (10.**14**) is safe, as is High Sierra (10.**13**), Sierra (10.**12**), and so on (the third set doesn't matter).

If you control the updates for your computer, the solution is **not to update** when Catalina is released. If your school or company's IT department manages your computer, then you will want to contact them ASAP (feel free to share this message with them).

I hope this message prevents a few headaches as Apple releases their new software and we wait for LEGO to release theirs. At this time, we do not anticipate any other *FIRST* program software to be impacted by this change.

You can learn more about the changes from these sources:
- [LEGO's Software Launch Issues](https://education.lego.com/en-us/support/mindstorms-ev3/software-launch-issues)
- [LEGO's Software Downloads](https://education.lego.com/en-us/downloads/mindstorms-ev3/software)
- [Apple's page on 32-bit compatibility](https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT208436)
- [How to Find out If Your Mac Software is 32- or 64-Bit](https://www.macworld.com/article/3393161/how-to-find-out-if-your-mac-software-is-32-or-64-bit.html)

Best,

Drew Whisenant
