Hello teams!

We're less than a month from the challenge releases for FIRST&reg; LEGO&reg; League and FIRST&reg; LEGO&reg; League Jr., can you believe it!? Don't forget to check [past emails](https://github.com/drewwhis/first-in-alabama/tree/main/first-lego-league/2019-2020/email-blasts) and the [FAQ](https://github.com/drewwhis/first-in-alabama/wiki/Frequently-Asked-Questions).

## Dates

We've added a page listing currently scheduled events and reserved dates for both programs. You can find those dates [here](https://github.com/drewwhis/first-in-alabama/blob/main/first-lego-league/2019-2020/event-dates.md).

Be aware that many details have not been finalized. As they are, that page will be updated to reflect the changes.


## Acronyms

For our new FIRSTers, you're going to see a LOT of acronyms in FIRST, so here's a brief run-down!
- **FIRST** For Inspiration and Recognition of Science and Technology, the international non-profit
- **FLL Jr.** FIRST LEGO League Jr., a FIRST program for students aged six to ten
- **FLL** FIRST LEGO League, a FIRST program for students aged nine to fourteen
- **FTC** FIRST Tech Challenge, a FIRST program for students in grades seven through twelve
- **FRC** FIRST Robotics Competition, a FIRST program for students in grades nine through twelve
- **FIA** FIRST in Alabama, the local non-profit serving the progression of FIRST programs to Alabama


## Core Values

For our new-comers (or those who want a refresher), FIRST has a set of Core Values. They're our Core Values because they are central to what we do and how we achieve our goals. Additionally, those competing in FIRST LEGO League should notice that the Core Values are one of the three specific areas in which your team will be judged (along with the Project and Robot Design), so getting yourself familiar with them early will be especially helpful!

The FIRST Core Values are:
- **Discovery**. We explore new skills and ideas.
- **Innovation**. We use creativity and persistence to solve problems.
- **Impact**. We apply what we learn to improve our world.
- **Inclusion**. We respect each other and embrace our differences.
- **Teamwork**. We are stronger when we work together.
- **Fun**. We enjoy and celebrate what we do!

As you work through your season, make sure that you emphasize, encourage, and incorporate the Core Values with your team, in team meetings and at events, as well as outside the team.

Our Core Values help guide us toward one of the goals of FIRST, paraphrased by FIRST Founder Dean Kamen:
    
    “We’re not using kids to build robots, we’re using robots to build kids.”


## Program Challenge Pages

If you haven't checked out the FIRST website lately, their landing pages for [FIRST LEGO League Jr.](https://www.firstinspires.org/robotics/flljr) and [FIRST LEGO League](https://www.firstinspires.org/robotics/fll) can quickly link you to some useful information, updated as the season goes on. 

There's also some **old** information (as of 7 July) on the [FLL Jr. challenge page](http://www.juniorfirstlegoleague.org/challenge) and the [FLL challenge page](http://www.firstlegoleague.org/challenge), but it will get updated for the challenge release. 

Just be aware the MISSION MOON<sup>SM</sup> and INTO ORBIT<sup>SM</sup> are **last year's** challenges for FLL Jr. and FLL, respectively, and BOOMTOWN BUILD<sup>SM</sup> and CITY SHAPER<sup>SM</sup> are **this year's** challenges. We'll also provide more information following the challenge release.


## Team Information

As we get closer to the start of the season, you'll want to make sure your team is administratively squared away! This includes paying the FIRST registration fees (\$99 for FLL Jr. plus \$15 shipping and handling, \$225 for FLL plus \$10 shipping and handling) and having two Lead Coach/Mentors at least 18 years old to register in the FIRST Dashboard and pass screening.

You will **not** be able to order product in your Dashboard (including the FLL mat and models) until your registration is paid to FIRST.

Some reminders about your team as you plan for the season:
- Your team requires students! 
    - No single **FLL Jr.** team can have more than **six** students *total*. So if you have seven students, but three of them are only part-time members, they still count against your six, so you'll need a second team.
    - No single **FLL** team can have more than **ten** students *total*. So if you have eleven students, but three of them are only part-time members, they still count against your ten, so you'll need a second team.
- There is an age limit. 
    - For **FLL Jr.**, students must be at least six years old (but this is a soft restriction - kids can play up!). Students must be **no older than 10** years old at the start of the year. If a student was 10 years old on January 1, 2019, he/she *is* eligible! If a student was 11 years old on January 1, 2019, he/she **is not** eligible.
    - For **FLL**, students must be at least nine years old (but this is a soft restriction - kids can play up!). Students must be **no older than 14** years old at the start of the year. If a student was 14 years old on January 1, 2019, he/she *is* eligible! If a student was 15 years old on January 1, 2019, he/she **is not** eligible.
- To get a feel for the kinds of things teams have been asked to do in prior seasons, take a look at the past challenges page for [FLL Jr.](http://www.juniorfirstlegoleague.org/past-challenges) or [FLL](http://www.firstlegoleague.org/past-challenges). I might recommend walking through an old challenge with your partner coaches, other mentors, other teachers, or even your team before seeing the new challenge!


## Support

The sooner your coaches and teams are registered, the easier it will be for you to receive product and information about events. Please make sure you stay in touch with the other contacts for your teams (coaches, mentors, admins, etc.) to make sure everyone is receiving the information they should be getting!

If anyone is **not** getting the information they need, help make sure that they are affilated with the appropriate team(s) in the Dashboard. 

If you're running into any issues with registration or the Dashboard, make sure to check the FAQ or contact us at FLL@FIRSTinAlabama.org.

Please let us know if you have any questions.

Best,

Drew and Taylor Whisenant