Hello Coaches and Mentors!

We hope you have been staying safe and enjoying yourself over the past few months. We are preparing for the 2020-2021 season of *FIRST*® LEGO® League, and we have some important information to share with you. 

The best thing you can do **right now** is make sure your team contacts are updated in the Dashboard, including leaving any teams you are no longer affiliated with! We have details in our [FAQ](https://github.com/drewwhis/alabama-first-lego-league/wiki/Frequently-Asked-Questions).

Please make sure you read the entire email and check the FAQ before contacting us, as we may have already provided the answer! This also lets us make sure our FAQ is up-to-date.

# Contents

- Virtual Events
- FIRST® LEGO® League Program Changes
- Challenge and Explore Seasons
- Slack to Discord Transition
- Closing


# Virtual Events

Due to the on-going COVID-19 pandemic and many of the schools in Alabama moving to virtual instruction to start the school year, we have decided the Alabama events this season will be held virtually. We anticipate our virtual Qualifying Tournaments will be held sometime in February, and we are planning for event registration to cost no more than \$20 per team. We will have more information on how these events will be judged and refereed later, but we do not anticipate any in-person events at this time.


# *FIRST*® LEGO® League Program Changes

For the 2020-2021 season, *FIRST*® has brought the three programs *FIRST*® LEGO® League, *FIRST*® LEGO® League Jr., and *FIRST*® LEGO® League Jr. Discovery Edition under one umbrella - the unified *FIRST*® LEGO® League. These three programs now exist as three divisions within one program.

- Discover (PreK - 1st Grade), formerly *FIRST*® LEGO® League Jr. Discovery Edition
- Explore (2nd - 4th Grade), formerly *FIRST*® LEGO® League Jr.
- Challenge (4th - 8th Grade), formerly *FIRST*® LEGO® League

Each division will have their own events, activities, rules, and so on, but from now on we are one, big *FIRST*® LEGO® League family! We have more information captured on our [program structure page](https://github.com/drewwhis/alabama-first-lego-league/tree/master/2020-2021/program-structure.md).


# Challenge and Explore Seasons

August is quickly approaching, which means we are near the launch of the 2020-2021 *FIRST*® LEGO® League Challenge and Explore seasons! Our program kickoffs start the new *FIRST*® season, GAME CHANGERS!

Challenge will release on August 4th with RePLAY! Learn more about the upcoming season and get a reminder when the broadcast streams on Twitch by visiting the [challenge and info webpage](https://www.firstinspires.org/robotics/fll/challenge-and-season-info).
 
Explore will also release on August 4th with PLAYMAKERS! Learn more about the upcoming season and get a reminder when the broadcast streams on Twitch by visiting the [challenge and season webpage](https://www.firstinspires.org/robotics/fll/explore/challenge-and-season).


# Slack to Discord Transition

For those who have used the Slack we set up, we will be shutting it on **October 1** because we are moving to Discord. Discord will be available to coaches, mentors, parents, volunteers, and students (aged 13 and older) across all *FIRST*® programs! We have opted to move to Discord (across all programs) because it is very similar to Slack with the benefit that many students (especially high school students) are using it already! Like Slack, it can also be used to communicate with other coaches or with *FIRST*® staff. To learn more about using Discord, you can check out their [Beginner's Guide](https://support.discord.com/hc/en-us/articles/360045138571).

There is **no requirement or expectation** that you or anyone with your team use the Discord. We are simplify offering it as another avenue for members of our community to receive direct information.
 
To join the Discord as a member of the *FIRST*® LEGO® League program, you can use and share this link - Join Discord (disabled on GitHub).
 
If you are involved in multiple programs, you can add the other programs after you've joined! If you have questions, feel free to reach out.


# Closing

Please remember that you can always consult:

- [Past Emails](https://github.com/drewwhis/alabama-first-lego-league/tree/master/2020-2021/email-blasts)
- [FAQ](https://github.com/drewwhis/alabama-first-lego-league/wiki/Frequently-Asked-Questions)
- [Program Structure](https://github.com/drewwhis/alabama-first-lego-league/tree/master/2020-2021/program-structure.md)

We are excited to start this new season with you, and we look forward to sharing a LOT more information (deadlines, workshops, etc.) in the weeks to come!

Best,

Drew and Taylor Whisenant

*FIRST*® LEGO® League Program Delivery Partners