Hello everyone!

We would again like to congratulate everyone who participated in *FIRST* LEGO League Challenge this season - however that looked for you!

We would also like to congratulate those who participated in this weekend's Alabama Championship (results below).

We are looking forward to a more typical season for 2021-2022, but we're excited to bring some of the lessons learned this year with us! We are currently planning for virtual scrimmages early in the season, especially for the robot game. This would allow more teams to get feedback and know for sure if some part of their strategy isn't competition-legal. For the state tournament, we're also considering a virtual judging program so that teams with farther to travel could start the day later and judge at home the night before.

Be on the lookout for registration to open in May, and make sure to start registration for all your teams then! You don't have to pay the fees immediately, but it will help us track the number of teams so we can plan for qualifiers!

As always, feel free to reach out with questions, and make sure to check out [our FAQ](https://github.com/drewwhis/first-in-alabama/wiki/Frequently-Asked-Questions) for the most common questions!

Best,

Drew and Taylor Whisenant

## *FIRST* LEGO League Alabama Championship Results

### Robot Scores

| rank | team  | highest | 1   | 2   | 3   |
| ---- | ----- | ------- | --- | --- | --- |
|  1   | 24661 | 420     | 420 | 420 | 400 |
|  2   | 39374 | 405     | 365 | 375 | 405 |
|  3   | 51569 | 335     | 335 | 310 | 290 |
|  4   | 18238 | 330     | 330 | 255 | 225 |
|  5   | 46121 | 310     | 310 | 295 | 285 |
|  6   | 41104 | 310     | 310 | 265 | 245 |
|  7   | 16965 | 305     | 305 | 305 | 305 |
|  8   | 11772 | 305     | 305 | 300 | 300 |
|  9   | 24610 | 295     | 240 | 295 | 240 |
| 10   | 32309 | 290     | 290 | 255 | 270 |
| 11   | 39697 | 275     | 275 | 250 | 260 |
| 12   | 30015 | 260     | 260 | 230 | 240 |
| 13   | 16035 | 250     | 250 | 250 | 225 |
| 14   | 14738 | 240     | 240 | 160 | 220 |
| 15   | 46569 | 230     | 230 | 145 | 100 |
| 16   | 39377 | 215     | 215 | 195 | 190 |
| 17   | 31513 | 170     | 170 | 105 | 120 |
| 18   | 30014 | 115     | 115 |  80 | 100 |
| 19   | 37269 | 110     | 110 | 100 |  90 |

### Awards

- Coach/Mentor Award
  - Susanne Whited
  - Team 39374
  - C.R.A.B. (Cool Robots and Builders)
- Core Values Award
  - Team 46121
  - Libertas Lions
- Innovation Project Award
  - Team 18238
  - High Voltage
- Robot Design Award
  - Team 24661
  - Activators
- Robot Performance Award
  - 420 Points
  - Team 24661
  - Activators
- Breakthrough Award
  - Team 51569
  - Blue Bananas
- Engineering Excellence Award
  - Team 24610 
  - Mystery Machinery
- Rising All-Star Award
  - Team 41104
  - Brickbusters
- Motivate Award
  - Team 39697
  - Huntsville Smarties
- Champion's Award
  - Team 16965
  - Ultimate Current