Hello all!

We have finished our placements and are prepared to share some additional information with you!


## Scrimmages and State

We've gotten a few questions about this, so we wanted to send a reminder. Our virtual scrimmages (Feb. 13 and Feb. 20) are replacing what *would* be qualifiers. There will be no rankings or awards, but you will get feedback to prepare for the virtual state tournament on April 10.

As a reminder, all teams will participate in the April 10 event. Your scrimmage will be an opportunity to make sure your robot rounds are up to standards for the state tournament.


## Scrimmage Judging and Robot Rounds

For judging, you will be assigned to a Google Meet. You will need a Google-tied email for this. In order to claim your judging slot, **email Taylor Whisenant** at twhisenant@firstinalabama.org. You will need to include **your Google email**, **your name**, and **your team NUMBER**. For a reminder on what to expect in judging, check out [our judging page](https://github.com/drewwhis/alabama-first-lego-league/blob/main/2020-2021/challenge/judging.md).

For judging materials, you will be given access to a Google Drive folder using the same email address for your Google Meet. You can upload any materials you like for judging there, no later than **the Friday** before your event.

For robot rounds, you will have access to the same Google Drive folder, and those **three**, single-take videos should be uploaded to your folder, again, no later than **the Friday** before your event. For the scrimmages, it'll be okay if you don't have your standard FLL table built, but you will need the table for the state tournament in April.

We will have an example of a robot round video available by the end of the week. Generally, the camera should be stationary with a whole view of the table, including the Home area and Launch area. It should be obvious when the robot is started the first time (so that referees can verify the time it takes), and the robot should be stopped when the two and a half minutes expires. Finally, you can move the camera closer at the end of the round to provide a better view of the end state of the table.


## Scrimmage Assignments

Here we have the scrimmage assignments! You will receive your specific time from Taylor once you have your meet assigned, but only expect to spend about 30 minutes on the day of the event.

Saturday, February 13
- 1371
- 1687
- 14738
- 16035
- 18238
- 30014
- 30015
- 31513
- 39697
- 41104
- 41105
- 50622
- 51569

Saturday, February 20
- 11772
- 16965
- 24610
- 24661
- 32309
- 37269
- 39374
- 39375
- 39377
- 46121
- 46569
- 46673
- 47896
- 50349
- 51548

Please let us know if you run into any issues or have any questions!

Best,

Drew and Taylor Whisenant