Hello teams!

We have finished the Week 2 Scrimmage, and we have some updated information to share! We will be sending judging rubrics and match scores to the teams who participated this weekend. As we've said before, these events are as much a learning experience for us in running virtual events as they are for you in participating in virtual events (and getting feedback).

Here are some updates we'd like to share with all teams.

## Our Improvements

We didn't identify any new areas of improvement immediately from this round of scrimmages, but we're still looking for changes to make for the state event.

We invite all teams that participated in the Scrimmages to provide any helpful feedback, keeping in mind that some things, like the new judging format, are outside of our control and cannot be changed. You can find the feedback form [at this link](). Again, Week 2 teams will receive their feedback forms later today.


## Judging

Given the nature of virtual events, the question of parent attendees came up this week, and our guidance is as follows. We have no issues with parents being **physically** in the room where your team is meeting for the judging session as long as they are **not on camera** and are **not audible**. We ask that you **do not invite parents to the meeting** so that we can keep the number of virtual participants to a minimum.

Along those same lines, we do encourage your remote or quarantined team members to join the meeting from wherever they are. Just make sure you take some time to practice having students in various locations if you go this route.

The judges are noticing a fair amount of coach prompting during the judging sessions. Please remember that coaches should not be involved with any judging aspects of the session (managing the meeting technology is fine!), including prompting or signaling the students for specific information. Coaches are welcome to repeat questions to their teams, but (of course) not to answer the questions themselves.

Remember that any materials you upload are **supplemental** and not to be used in your actual judging. They serve as a way for judges to say, "Wait, what were they telling us earlier?" Anything you want to be judged on **has to be discussed during the judging session**.

We have some tips for teams participating in these online sessions based on what our judges have observed.
- Whenever the judges are talking, all other participants should be on mute to reduce audio feedback.
- Recognizing that 30 minutes can be a tall order for younger students, you might want to have chairs available for your students for any portions where they aren't presenting.
- If the team is spread across multiple locations, we recommend using headsets to reduce audio feedback.
- Make sure to mute yourself whenever you aren't speaking.
- If you have multiple people in one room, you may need external speakers rather than just the laptop speaker.
- A separate webcam can be helpful because their microphones generally have a wider range than the microphone built into laptops.
- If you're showing a slide presentation, make sure to share the screen in the meeting rather than present on a screen in the room.
- If you have any physical objects (robot, prototypes, costumes, etc.), you can show those on your video feed as well.
- It is okay to speak with your mask on (just practice and project!) rather than removing it to speak each time.
- Make sure to take some time reflecting on the Core Values and how you've incorporated them within your team before your next judging session.
  

## Robot Rounds

Make sure you are filming the inspection period at the start of each video. This affects how the matches are scored.

During each 2:30 robot round, the camera needs to be in a fixed position. It can be moved before the round, to show the inspection, and after the round, to show the final positions of things on the table. Otherwise, it needs to remain stationary.

In each video, make sure to get closeups of the table **after** the 2:30 period has elapsed. This helps the referees view the final positions of everything on the table.


## Closing

Again, we'd like to thank everyone who participated! We do not have any plans to post Robot Round scores from the Scrimmages, and there were no awards deliberations. We do, however, ask that you celebrate with your team to commemorate this milestone in your season.

Week 2 Teams should receive their judging rubrics and robot game score sheets later today. Please let us know if you have any questions or if anything isn't clear. We would like to resolve any discrepancies by the end of the week, so please look over your forms carefully.

We will be preparing an Alabama Championship checklist over the next few days, so be on the lookout for that while you continue monitoring the Challenge Updates.

Best,

Drew and Taylor Whisenant
