Hello teams!

We are gearing up for the upcoming scrimmage events in February. We should have assignments ready early next week as we are still waiting on about 16 teams to indicate a preference.

First and foremost, please remember that these events are practice runs, both for you and your team as well as for us! No matter how far you've progressed, you should make sure to participate in your scrimmage event so that everyone is ready for the real deal in April!

For now, here's what we can share in terms of format.

## Time Commitment

For whichever date you select, there is a four-hour window we are planning between 8 AM and 12 Noon (Central Standard Time). Your team will be assigned a judging time slot for approximately 30 minutes. On the day of the event, that is your only competition activity where you will interface with us.

Over the week before your event, you need to record three robot rounds that you will upload for the referees to review. This won't be done on the day of the event, so this will require a little time that you can spread throughout the week before.


## Judging

This is the first year of the new judging format! As a reminder, you can read over the judging experience [on our judging page](https://github.com/drewwhis/first-in-alabama/blob/main/2020-2021/challenge/judging.md).

As part of judging, you'll upload your materials during the week leading up to your event. You'll want to upload any documents the judges will review, and you must upload a copy of your program for the judges to review. (This can be as a document of pictures if you need.)

You'll receive a link to a video call with your team of judges, which will last about 30 minutes.


## Robot Rounds

As mentioned, you'll upload three videos of robot rounds. Each video must be a single recording from the week leading up to your event.

Once uploaded, the referees will be able to score your rounds and offer feedback! This way, if you have something setup wrong, you'll know before the state tournament!

For your robot rounds, you'll just want to make sure you have your table setup with the mat and models, just like you would see at a competition.


## Assignments and Scheduling

Once we have event assignments, we'll be sending the additional information you'll need to compete! This includes:
- How to upload judging materials
- How to upload robot rounds
- Your judging time
- Your judging video call

The process will be as identical to the state tournament as we can make it. We hope to have the remaining information above to you by the end of next week. If there's anything we can clarify between now and then, please let us know!

Best,

Drew and Taylor Whisenant