Welcome to the 2021-2022 Season! 

We are excited to begin preparations for *FIRST*&reg; FORWARD presented by Qualcomm and this year's *FIRST*&reg; LEGO&reg; League season - CARGO CONNECT!


## Frequently Asked Questions

Before we get going, we would like to direct you to our frequently asked questions page! Here, you can find important information for how to:
- Register a new team
- Register an existing team
- Invite a new coach to a team
- Leave a team

And many other topics! If you are receiving these messages, it means you are listed with *FIRST*&reg; as a coach or team administrator. We cannot remove you from their list, but our FAQ page does have the steps you'll need.

To find our FAQs, visit the page on [our GitHub account](https://github.com/drewwhis/alabama-first-lego-league/wiki/Frequently-Asked-Questions).


## *FIRST*&reg; FORWARD and CARGO CONNECT

If you haven't seen the season announcement from *FIRST*&reg;, make sure to [watch it here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_9OvFDkA6qU)!

You should be able to start the registration process for the new season in your [*FIRST*&reg; Dashboard](https://www.firstinspires.org) now! We are anticipating a more normal season, with in-person events and qualifying tournaments (for Challenge), so the sooner you *start* the registration process, the better we can project our events!

We are planning for a Challenge Release at the start of August, and we would anticipate any season-specific materials (Challenge Set, Explore Set, *etc.*) to ship beginning around that time. Non-seasonal materials (*e.g.*, SPIKE Prime, WeDo) could be shipped as soon as payment is received, depending on stock available.

Please keep in mind that if you plan on applying for any grants, you will **not** be able to use them (in most cases) if you have already paid your registration costs. Always check with your grant awarder! As we are made aware of grants for teams, we will share that information.


## EV3 Retirement (Challenge Only)

One big change our Challenge participants will want to watch for is LEGO&reg;'s retirement of the MINDSTORMS EV3. The product will be retired this summer, and LEGO&reg; will support the EV3 software for two more years. 

The EV3 **is still competition legal**, so there's no need for an *immediate* replacement. We have previously seen the retirement of the RCX and the NXT (both of which were legal in the 2020-2021 season), so this is a well-established process.

Be aware that the resource materials *FIRST*&reg; distributes for Challenge will be geared toward the SPIKE Prime, primarily, so you will need to make any necessary adjustments if using an EV3 (the same is true if you are using an NXT or an RCX). For 2021-2022, we anticipate a guided mission for both the EV3 and the SPIKE Prime, but this will not be the case in 2022-2023.

If you are starting a new team and deciding between an EV3 and a SPIKE Prime, we definitely recommend the SPIKE Prime, especially since there will be a more limited supply of new EV3s due to the retirement.

If you have questions about LEGO's&reg; EV3 phase-out and how it will impact your Challenge teams, please feel free to reach out. This change does **not** impact Explore or Discover Teams.

You can learn more about the SPIKE Prime from [LEGO&reg;](https://education.lego.com/en-us/products/lego-education-spike-prime-set/45678#in-the-box), and you can place an order through your *FIRST*&reg; Dashboard.


## Program Divisions

For those who did not join us for the 2020-2021 season, *FIRST*&reg; LEGO&reg; League is now a single, unified program in *FIRST*&reg; with three divisions.

Challenge is what was formerly called *FIRST*&reg; LEGO&reg; League, Explore was formerly called *FIRST*&reg; LEGO&reg; League Jr., and Discover was formerly *FIRST*&reg; LEGO&reg; League Jr. Discovery Edition.

As a reminder, Explore is non-competitive and Discover is **not** designed around teams and events (like Explore and Challenge are).

You can learn more about the divisions on our [program structure page](https://github.com/drewwhis/alabama-first-lego-league/blob/main/2021-2022/program-structure.md).


## Closing

We are excited to start a new season with you! We are working to plan some remote scrimmages and workshops throughout the year, so stay on the lookout details!

As always, please reach out if you have any questions.


Best,

Taylor Whisenant
- Program Delivery Partner - *FIRST*&reg; LEGO League
- Collaborative Teacher - Athens City Schools

Drew Whisenant
- Program Delivery Partner - *FIRST*&reg; LEGO League
- Senior Software Engineer - Booz Allen Hamilton

FLL@FIRSTinAlabama.org