Hello Explore Festival Teams!

We are so excited to welcome you all to the *FIRST*&reg; LEGO&reg; League Explore Alabama Festival on Saturday, April 9, 2022. While you're preparing right now, here are a few things you'll want to know!

## Event Schedule

As you may know, this event is taking place at the von Braun Center during the *FIRST*&reg; Robotics Competition Rocket City Regional! That event is a *FIRST*&reg; competition for high school students, so it highlights the capstone of our programs! You'll also be part of the *FIRST*&reg; Progression of Programs, showing off both *FIRST*&reg; LEGO&reg; League Challenge and *FIRST*&reg; Tech Challenge, the other competition programs in our offerings. When you're not participating in Festival activities, such as reviewing and the awards ceremony, we recommend visiting the other areas of the event!

The Festival will start at 12:00 Noon on Saturday and will run until 3:00 PM. We will have 11:30 AM to 12:00 Noon set aside for setup. The reviewers will visit your team between 12:00 Noon and 1:00 PM. From 1:00 PM to 2:00 PM there will be STEM activities and an opportunity to check out the FRC regional. From 2:00 PM to 3:00 PM we will host the Festival Award Ceremony and the Ice Cream Social! During the awards ceremony, each participant will receive a LEGO&reg; medal and each team will receive an award based on feedback from their reviewers.


## Event Requirements

You can read the [full Explore Event Introduction document](https://firstinspiresst01.blob.core.windows.net/first-forward/fll-explore/fll-explore-cargo-connect-event-introduction.pdf), but we'll also try to address the highlights here, too.

Each team will need to bring their Team Model, the motorized LEGO&reg; model they built over the course of the season as part of their learning experience, and anything needed to operate it. Each team will also need to bring their Team Poster, traditionally a tri-fold that highlights both the team members and their experiences through the season; it's an opportunity to reflect and grow as a team!

During the event, your team will be visited by official reviewers who will evaluate your team, team model, and team poster using the official [Reviewing Sheet](https://firstinspiresst01.blob.core.windows.net/first-forward/fll-explore/fll-explore-cargo-connect-reviewing-documents.pdf). It's definitely worth running through a practice review with your team! The reviewers will look forward to hearing any presentation your team has prepared but will also be prepared to ask your team questions about the season.

If your team plans on visiting the pit area of the FRC regional, there are a few rules you will want to keep in mind:
- While in the pit area, **all** visitors must wear safety glasses.
- While in the pit area, **all** visitors must have long hair tied back.
- If entering a specific team pit, **all** visitors must wear closed shoes - not just closed-toe shoes.

Finally, you **must** bring a copy of your team roster from your *FIRST*&reg; Dashboard with all of your Youth Participants registered.


## Registering Youth

The last things you'll need to be aware of are Youth Registration and the Consent and Release Form. All Youth Participants **must** be registered online with *FIRST*&reg;. This requires coordination with your team parents, and we have [instructions online](https://www.firstinspires.org/resource-library/youth-registration-system). As part of this process, your parents will sign the Consent and Release Forms for the students.

All other attendees must also complete Consent and Release Forms. If you have a *FIRST*&reg; Dashboard account, you (or a parent) are also able to sign their own Consent and Release Form. We have [instructions for completing the Consent and Release Form digitally](https://github.com/drewwhis/first-in-alabama/wiki/Complete-the-Consent-and-Release-Form), and we have printable copies [here](https://firstwa.org/wp-content/uploads/2021/11/FIRST-Consent-and-Release-Form-Paper-2021-2022-ENGLISH-FINAL-1.pdf). All attendees must complete a form digitally or on paper. If completed on paper, you must bring the copy to the event, so we prefer digital when possible. Attendees under 18 must have their form completed by a parent/guardian/other adult.


## Closing

We look forward to seeing you at the Alabama Festival! If you have any questions, please reach out as soon as possible!

Best,

Taylor Whisenant
- Program Delivery Partner - *FIRST*&reg; LEGO&reg; League
- Collaborative Teacher - Athens City Schools

Drew Whisenant
- Program Delivery Partner - *FIRST*&reg; LEGO&reg; League
- Senior Applications Software Developer - *FIRST*&reg;

FLL@FIRSTinAlabama.org