# FIRST LEGO League - Announcements and Grants

Hello FIRST LEGO League contacts!

I hope you’re all looking forward to this season - INTO ORBIT!

## Email Blasts
First, a note:
	This and all emails I send this season will be saved and posted here: https://github.com/drewwhis/alabama-first-lego-league/tree/master/2018_2019/email_blasts

## Upcoming Events
Mark your calendars - the challenge release is on August 1! 
We are planning a kickoff event with trainings on Saturday, September 1st in the Huntsville area pending confirmation of a venue. Depending on shipping times, we also hope to have a field setup kit in place, as well. For now, plan on only coaches attending (but if we have ample space, we will open it up to students).

## Contacts and Teams
Speaking of coaches, starting this season we will only be contacting those individuals listed through FIRST as primary or secondary coaches (or purchasers). Please make sure you have both coaches (and purchasers if you have those) up-to-date at https://www.firstinspires.org. This is especially important if you are no longer the coach of a team.

If the team no longer exists, you will need to contact FIRST directly (we do not have a way to remove you from the system on our end).

## Qualifiers and Championship
This season, we expect to have up to 10 (WOW!) qualifiers. We will have more details on locations and specific dates in the weeks to come.
All qualifiers will fall on:
* November 3
* November 10
* December 1
* December 8

No other dates for qualifiers are being considered at this time.

We tentatively plan to have the Alabama State Championship in the Huntsville area (likely at Hampton Cove Middle School) on March 2, 2019.

## Teams
We have offered FIRST a projection of up to 120 teams statewide this year, so if you know anyone interested in getting their team started, have them sign up through FIRST as soon as possible so they can receive updates and apply for grants. (They can also look at the email blast GitHub I linked to.)

## Registration Fee
For those who have not noticed yet, the registration fee through FIRST has increased from $225 to $300, but notice that this fee includes the field setup kit. Note that FIRST does not offer an option to register a team without receiving a kit, but this does mean that any registration-only grants now technically pay for your kit!

## AIAA Grants
The American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics (AIAA) has a grant due August 1st for $250 for veteran teams or $500 for rookie teams. These are unrestricted and can be used for any team fees. Applicants must have a coach for mentor who is an AIAA member (and teachers can become members for free!). You can apply for the grant at https://www.aiaa.org/firstgrants. Any team in the state is eligible for this grant.

## TVA Grants
The Tennessee Valley Authority (TVA) offers a grant to cover the cost of registration (including the field setup kit) only to teams in the TVA Service Area. Teams must begin the registration process with FIRST and hold a team number, however, teams must NOT pay for registration as it will forfeit their TVA Grant. (No exceptions, substitutions or refunds will be made, and grants are awarded on a first-come, first-served basis.)

To apply for a TVA grant, submit a very short online application to FIRST. For those interested, the process is outlined below.

## Questions?
If you have any questions, you can reach out to Taylor (twhisenant@FIRSTinAlabama.org), myself (dwhisenant@FIRSTinAlabama.org), or both of us (FLL@FIRSTinAlabama.org). We hope to see you this season!

Best,

Lawrence (Drew) Whisenant

## TVA Grant Process
* FIRST will review all grant requests each Wednesday by noon, Eastern Time.
* FIRST will send the grant requests to Tennessee Valley Authority to verify the team’s location within their service area. This process usually takes 48 hours.
* Once FIRST receives the approval back from Tennessee Valley Authority, teams can expect the grant funds to be available within 5 business days.
* Teams should expect to receive 3 emails during the application process. The first will confirm that they have successfully submitted the application. The second will notify them of approval and application of funds. The last will provide information about recognizing/thanking TVA and the use of the TVA logo.
