# CHALLENGE RELEASE - FLL and FLL Jr.
Hello teams!

## Challenge Release - FLL and FLL Jr.
We have launch, FIRST LAUNCH! 
Tomorrow, we officially kick off FIRST LAUNCH 2019 with FIRST® LEGO® League Jr. MISSION MOON and FIRST® LEGO® League INTO ORBIT. 
Challenge Release is at NOON EDT (11 AM CDT) on Wednesday, August 1!

FIRST LEGO League can tune into a live stream of the release at [twitch.tv/firstinspires](twitch.tv/firstinspires).

FIRST LEGO League: Make sure to check out the [Challenge Site](http://www.firstlegoleague.org/challenge). Quick reminders:
* Teams consist of 2-10 students between the ages of 9 and 14.
* Teams can only use official LEGO® products when building their robots.
* Robots must function autonomously (i.e., no remote control)
* Teams must compete in all four areas (Robot Design, Project, Core Values, and Robot Performance)
* More details can be found [here](http://www.firstlegoleague.org/sites/default/files/hydro-dynamics/new-participation-rules.pdf).

If you have questions about any of these, please let me know ASAP. 
Failure to comply with one or more of these could result in disqualification (and we don’t want to see that!).

FIRST LEGO League Jr.: Make sure to check out your [Challenge Site](https://www.firstinspires.org/resource-library/flljr/mission-moon-challenge-and-resources), too! Your reminders:
* Teams consist of 2-6 students between the ages of 6 and 10.
* Teams must complete a LEGO model and Show Me Poster.
* Teams must participate in an Expo event.

If you have any questions about any of these, just let me know! 
We are expecting a few Expo opportunities throughout the year before the State Expo in the spring (and you can host an Expo as well!).
 
## Open Software Pilot - FLL Only
For the 2018-2019 INTO ORBIT season, Alabama will be participating in the Open Software pilot! 
Typically, teams program their robots with the official LEGO MINDSTORMS software. 
While this remains an option, for this season all teams will have the opportunity to explore alternative software (both at qualifier and at the state championship). 

As part of this pilot, **all teams (regardless of software) will submit the Robot Design Summary Worksheet**. 
If your team is using a software other than the LEGO MINDSTORMS software, you will need to sign up prior to any events.

Expect more details on this pilot next week!

## Core Values Pilot - FLL Only
One of FIRST’s changes over the past year has been to incorporate cross-program core values - the [FIRST Core Values](https://www.firstinspires.org/robotics/frc/blog/2018-first-core-values). 
These apply to all programs FIRST offers - FIRST LEGO League Jr., FIRST LEGO League, FIRST Tech Challenge, and FIRST Robotics Competition. 
Most regions will be using the same Core Values rubric (very similar to last year), but Alabama will be one of the regions piloting the new rubric in conjunction with the new FIRST Core Values. 

We do not have additional information about the Core Values Pilot at this time, but we will provide more when it becomes available.

## Slack - FLL and FLL Jr.
I’ve created a Slack group with channels for FIRST LEGO League and FIRST LEGO League Jr. 
Slack offers a bulletin-board style messaging experience where you can see past responses. 
All posts are public and anyone in the group can post or respond; you can also tag people. 
For more information on Slack, you can see their [website](https://slack.com/). Slack offers phone and computer apps.

You can join the Slack group with this link. 
You will automatically be added to both the #fll channels and #flljr channels (and can leave them if you like). 
(Please note that the link has been disabled on the GitHub email blast page. Contact me directly for information if viewing on GitHub.)

I am not expecting or requiring anyone to use this service, just offering it as another means of community communication. 
By joining the service, you will be allowing yourself to be contacted by others on the service. 
Read the terms and conditions regarding email addresses and phone numbers if you have concerns providing user information.

If you do use the service, please be mindful of others and only share content and topics relevant to the channel you are using (FLL topics on the #fll channel, anything on the #random channel, FIRST general topics on the #general channel, etc.).

## TVA Grants - FLL and FLL Jr.
The Tennessee Valley Authority (TVA) offers a grant to cover the cost of registration (including the field setup kit) only to teams in the TVA Service Area. 
Teams must begin the registration process with FIRST and hold a team number, however, teams must NOT pay for registration as it will forfeit their TVA Grant. 
(No exceptions, substitutions or refunds will be made, and grants are awarded on a first-come, first-served basis.)

To apply for a TVA grant, submit a very short online application to FIRST. 
The program is open to both FIRST LEGO League and FIRST LEGO League Jr. teams!

## Past Emails - FLL and FLL Jr.
Remember that you can find previous emails here: https://github.com/drewwhis/alabama-first-lego-league/tree/master/2018_2019/email_blasts

## Contact - FLL and FLL Jr.
You can reach Taylor at twhisenant@FIRSTinAlabama.org, me at dwhisenant@FIRSTinAlabama.org, or both of us at FLL@FIRSTinAlabama.org.

Best,
Lawrence (Drew) Whisenant
