# Event Registration - FIRST® LEGO® League in Alabama

Hello teams!

Seems like it’s been forever since I emailed everyone. In the meantime, we’ve had some good questions pop up in the Slack channels! Here’s some important news.

## Team Registration
We will be closing team registration on Saturday, September 22. Anyone who has not been assigned a temporary or permanent team number at that time will be locked out for the 2018-2019 season. If you have created a team in the dashboard or if you have paid FIRST the $299 registration fee, you should have either a temporary or permanent team number.

If you have a temporary number, you will not receive qualifier registration information until you have submitted payment to FIRST. You will be eligible to register for events if you submit payment to FIRST before qualifier registration closes. 

If you have a permanent number, you will be eligible for qualifier registration as soon as it opens.

## Qualifier Registration
As a reminder, we will be opening event registration this Saturday, September 15 at noon (CDT). All primary coaches will be sent the link to a Google Form. In order to register, you must be paid with FIRST and have a permanent team number. In the form, you will provide some information, like your team number, and rank your preference of qualifiers.

In an effort to minimize duplication of messages and registration, we will direct registration messages to primary coaches only (but the primary coach may have someone else fill out the form at that time).

If you do not get the email or if you do not see your team number in the list, that means your registration is not complete. If you have not received the registration email by 1:00 PM on Saturday or if you have and notice your team number missing and you are a primary contact in the FIRST dashboard, then contact me to see what the situation is.

As a reminder, teams will be assigned to qualifiers in the following manner:
No qualifier will have more than 12 teams.
If you select a November date as your first choice and you are not told otherwise within 24 hours, you will be guaranteed that event.
If you do not select a November date as your first choice, you will be notified of your assignment when registration closes.

At this time, we plan to close qualifier registration no later than October 6, but we will do so earlier if all paid teams complete registration early.

We currently have the following events confirmed:
* Nov. 3 - North Madison County
* Nov. 10 - Huntsville
* Dec. 1 - Huntsville
* Dec. 1 - Huntsville
* Dec. 1 - Birmingham
* Dec. 8 - Huntsville
* Dec. 8 - Alexander City

When you receive registration information on Saturday, you’ll be provided with specific locations.

## Old (But Useful) News
Don’t forget!
* Check out [old emails](https://github.com/drewwhis/alabama-first-lego-league/tree/master/2018_2019/email_blasts).
* Join our Slack channels (see past emails for details).
* State Championship - 2 March.
* [Judging Expectations](https://github.com/drewwhis/alabama-first-lego-league/blob/main/2018-2019/judging/judging-expectations.md).
* A [more inclusive](https://www.firstinspires.org/about/diversityinclusion?utm_source=partner-blast&utm_medium=flljr&utm_campaign=edi-training-019) FIRST.
* FLL FIRST Steps Curriculum.

## Contact Us
You can reach Taylor at twhisenant@FIRSTinAlabama.org, me at dwhisenant@FIRSTinAlabama.org, or both of us at FLL@FIRSTinAlabama.org.

Best,

Lawrence (Drew) Whisenant
