# Team Update - FIRST® LEGO® League and FIRST® LEGO® League Jr.

Hello FLL and FLL Jr. Teams!

We’ve got about 25 FLL teams totally registered and paid so far this season (hooray!). 
That leaves us with just under 100 slots left in our projection, so there’s still time to register and pay (with grants!) and invite others to come learn with us. 
FLL Jr. has no projection, so all are welcome!

## Update Contact Information - FLL and FLL Jr.
Please make sure the contact information for your team is up to date! 
If you are no longer affiliated with a team, make sure to log into your Dashboard at [www.firstinspires.org](www.firstinspires.org) to invite your replacement. 
If your team no longer exists, you will need to contact FIRST directly using [this link](https://www.firstinspires.org/about/contact-us). 
We cannot stop sending you emails until this information is corrected. 
Please allow up to one week for our records to reflect the update.

## State Kickoff Event - FLL and FLL Jr.
We are still planning on holding our State Kickoff Event for FLL INTO ORBIT and FLL Jr. MISSION MOON. 
The event is to be held on Saturday, September 1 in the early afternoon in Huntsville. 
As soon as we have the venue’s final confirmation I will send that information and an RSVP form. 
We plan to have an FLL mat and models as well as an FLL Jr. Inspire Set on hand. 
We plan to have a few brief overview sessions on various topics, small-group, unstructured breakout sessions, and Q&A.

## FIRST Steps Curriculum - FLL Only
FIRST Steps is a full-year curriculum for FIRST LEGO League coaches and teachers!

The curriculum guides new coaches through their initial season with FIRST LEGO League and provides standards mapping and assessments for teachers implementing FIRST LEGO League in the classroom. 
It is a step by step, meeting by meeting framework that allows coaches or teachers with no previous FIRST experience to lead a robotics team through a successful first season. 
The curriculum introduces students to the Engineering Design Process and coding in addition to providing activities to build skills such as collaboration, group decision making and communication. 
Differentiated activities are provided for different age groups or skill levels. 

The curriculum is free and accessible to anyone via the Schoology learning management system. 
You can request access by visiting this link. 
(Please note that the link has been disabled on the GitHub email blast page. 
Contact me directly for information if viewing on GitHub.)

## Standards Alignment - FLL Jr. Only
While FIRST does not yet offer FIRST Steps for FIRST LEGO League Jr., we do provide a standards alignment for grades K-4. 

You can find the standards alignment by following [this link](https://www.firstinspires.org/resource-library/flljr/standard-alignment-map). 
Please note that the Excel document has multiple pages aligning with multiple sets of standards, including Common Core ELA, Common Core Math, and Next Generation Science Standards.

## A More Inclusive FIRST - FLL and FLL Jr.
Watch [this compelling, short video](https://www.firstinspires.org/about/diversityinclusion?utm_source=partner-blast&utm_medium=flljr&utm_campaign=edi-training-019) to see how you - as a coach or mentor - can ensure that you are inspiring success for your team. 
After watching the video, we hope you’ll be inspired to participate in the interactive training courses specifically designed for you!

## Open Software Pilot - FLL Only
For the 2018-2019 INTO ORBIT season, Alabama will be participating in the Open Software pilot! 
For this season, all teams will have the opportunity to explore alternative software (both at qualifier and at the state championship). 
As part of this pilot, all teams (regardless of software) will submit the Robot Design Summary Worksheet. 
If your team is using a software other than the LEGO MINDSTORMS software, you will need to sign up prior to any events.

## Core Values Pilot - FLL Only
This season, Alabama will be one of the regions piloting the new rubric in conjunction with the new FIRST Core Values. 
We do not have additional information about the Core Values Pilot at this time, but we will provide more when it becomes available.

## Slack - FLL and FLL Jr.
You can join the Slack group with this link. 
You will automatically be added to both the #fll channels and #flljr channels (and can leave them if you like). 
(Please note that the link has been disabled on the GitHub email blast page. 
Contact me directly for information if viewing on GitHub.)

If you do use the service, please be mindful of others and only share content and topics relevant to the channel you are using (FLL topics on the #fll channel, anything on the #random channel, FIRST general topics on the #general channel, etc.).

If you have questions, let me know!

## TVA Grants - FLL and FLL Jr.
To apply for a TVA grant, submit a very short online application to FIRST. 
Teams must begin the registration process with FIRST and hold a team number, however, teams must NOT pay for registration as it will forfeit their TVA Grant. 
(No exceptions, substitutions or refunds will be made, and grants are awarded on a first-come, first-served basis.)

## Event Dates - FLL and FLL Jr.
We are considering qualifiers for the following dates (subject to qualifier confirmation). No other dates are being considered.
* November 3
* November 10
* December 1
* December 8

We tentatively plan to have the Alabama State Championship in the Huntsville area (likely at Hampton Cove Middle School) on March 2, 2019.

The state FLL Jr. Expo will be held in the spring at the FIRST Robotics Competition Rocket City Regional. 
We are also exploring more opportunities for official expos throughout the season.

## Past Emails - FLL and FLL Jr.
Remember that you can find previous emails here: https://github.com/drewwhis/alabama-first-lego-league/tree/master/2018_2019/email_blasts

## Contact - FLL and FLL Jr.
You can reach Taylor at twhisenant@FIRSTinAlabama.org, me at dwhisenant@FIRSTinAlabama.org, or both of us at FLL@FIRSTinAlabama.org.

Best,

Lawrence (Drew) Whisenant
