# FIRST LEGO League and FIRST LEGO League Jr. Update

Hello teams!

We’re really starting to ramp up the INTO ORBIT and MISSION MOON seasons! 
For those in FLL, expect some detailed judging requirements for qualifiers by the kickoff event next week. 
I want to make sure everyone knows all expectations before we get much deeper into the season.

## AUVSI Grant Opportunity
The Pathfinder Chapter of the Association for Unmanned Vehicle	Systems International (AUVSI) has grants available for robotics programs. 
Those interested will present a five-minute presentation at Lee High School in Huntsville, AL on Tuesday, September 11 between 4:00 PM and 7:00 PM CDT. 
A formal presentation of awards will be made on Thursday, September 20 at Lee High School at 4:00 PM CDT. 
Anyone applying must submit notice to AUVSI prior to September 11. 

I have attached contact information and requirements below (not present on GitHub), as well as a map outlining where to enter the school. 
Lee High School is located at 2500 Meridian Street North, Huntsville, AL 35811. 
All programs are welcome to apply.

## Qualifier Registration - FLL Only
Registration is going to work a little different this season. 
We will open event registration on Saturday, September 15, two weeks after the kickoff event. 
We will close registration on Saturday, October 6 (sooner if all teams register before then).

Here’s where the big change comes in. 
If you select a Nov. 3 or Nov. 10 event as your top choice (or top choices) and you do not hear from us within 24 hours, you are guaranteed that event. 
That will give you up to seven weeks to arrange travel to the event, and (we hope) it will offer incentive to fill out the earlier dates. 
We will try to have a list of qualifiers and locations by Saturday, September 8 (we’re hitting some roadblocks arranging space).

Qualifier registration fees will be $75 per team.

## Slack Channels
I’ve updated the Slack discussion channels! If you join our Slack group, you’ll automatically be added to all of these channels. 
The link to join our Slack is listed below (disabled on GitHub).
* #first-general - General discussion about FIRST in Alabama.
* #fll-general - General discussion about FIRST LEGO League in Alabama.
* #fll-project - Discussion specific to the FLL Project Component.
* #fll-robot-game - Discussion specific to the FLL Robot Game Component (including Robot Design and Mission Mat and Models).
* #flljr-general - General discussion about FIRST LEGO League Jr. in Alabama.
* #random - Anything off-topic!

## State Expo Date and Registration - FLL Jr. Only
We haven’t forgotten about you, Jrs! 
The Alabama FIRST LEGO League Jr. Expo will be held at the Von Braun Center in Huntsville, AL on Saturday March 16 at the FIRST Robotics Competition Rocket City Regional. 
We will likely open registration and announce times in January, and all registered FLL Jr. teams are welcome to attend. 

State Expo registration fees will be $25 per team.

## FIRST® LEGO® League and FIRST® LEGO® League Jr. Kickoff
Don’t forget our state kickoff event for FIRST® LEGO® League and FIRST® LEGO® League Jr.! 
The event will be held at ADTRAN in Huntsville, AL, on Saturday, Sept. 1 from 1:00 PM to 4:00 PM (CDT).

We ask that all attending RSVP by August 29 through EventBrite using this link (disabled on GitHub). 
We ask that each person register with the link so that we can get an accurate head count. 
The event is open to coaches, and sessions will be geared toward them!

Some things you might want to bring with you:
* Something to take notes and contact information,
* A laptop with your MINDSTORMS or other software

We will be live-streaming the event! 
I’m investigating options right now. 
We will either use YouTube or Twitch, and I will send a link out the evening before. 
Make sure wherever you watch from does not block/filter those websites prior to the event if you plan to watch. 
I’ve tested Twitch and I’m experimenting with YouTube tomorrow. 
(For those curious, Twitch’s default is giving me about 18-30 seconds of latency. 
I hear there’s a beta with lower latency, but also that YouTube’s live streaming is much lower.)

I will have Slack running so that those off-site can get questions in. 
I also plan to post any materials I can following the event.

Our plan is to have a series of alternating Q&A, break-out, and 10- to 15-minute topic overviews. 

Topics we’re considering so far for brief overviews include:
* Judging in FLL
* The FIRST Progression of Programs
* The Open Software Pilot
* The Core Values Pilot
* Event Registration
* What to Expect at an Event
* Slack

In addition to these topics, we plan to provide others for you to discuss in your own groups. 
For many of these topics, you may find many coaches more knowledgeable than Taylor or me and more able to address specific questions and ideas. 

Such topics include:
* Team structure and organization
* What does FLL and FLL Jr. look like for your team?
* How can FLL and FLL Jr. be interwoven with the curriculum?

If you have any topics you’d like specifically addressed (in either category), you can email me, private-message me on Slack, or float the idea on the Slack channel. 

## Core Values Pilot - FLL, All Teams
As a reminder, Alabama is taking part in the Core Values Pilot. 
This applies to all teams. 
We will be using our own rubric for Core Values (linked below), but we will be using the standard rubrics for Project and Robot Design.

As part of the Core Values Pilot, all teams will have to complete the Core Values Poster for their qualifier events, as well as the state tournament. 
We have different requirements for the Core Values Poster. 
You can find our Core Values Poster requirements by following [this link](https://github.com/drewwhis/first-in-alabama/blob/main/2018_2019/judging/core-values/core-values-poster-2018-pilot.pdf) and they have been attached below.

## Update Contact Information
Please make sure the contact information for your team is up to date! 
If you are no longer affiliated with a team, make sure to log into your Dashboard at www.firstinspires.org to invite your replacement. 
If your team no longer exists, you should also be able to leave the team in your Dashboard. 
Please allow up to one week for our records to reflect the update.

## Old (But Useful) News
Refer to old emails for more detailed information.
* Sign up for our Slack channels!
* FLL and FLL Jr. Kickoff Event (1 Sept.).
* FLL Qualifiers (3 Nov., 10 Nov., 1 Dec., 8 Dec.).
* FLL Qualifier Registration (Sept. 15 - Oct. 6)
* FLL State (2 March).
* FLL Jr. State Expo (16 March).
* [FLL Open Software Pilot](https://github.com/drewwhis/first-in-alabama/blob/main/2018_2019/judging/robot-design/open-software-platform-pilot-robot-game-updates.pdf).
* [FLL Core Values Pilot - Rubric](https://github.com/drewwhis/first-in-alabama/blob/main/2018_2019/judging/core-values/core-values-rubric-2018-pilot.pdf).
* [FLL Core Values Pilot - Poster](https://github.com/drewwhis/first-in-alabama/blob/main/2018_2019/judging/core-values/core-values-poster-2018-pilot.pdf).
* TVA Grants!
* A [more inclusive](https://www.firstinspires.org/about/diversityinclusion?utm_source=partner-blast&utm_medium=flljr&utm_campaign=edi-training-019) FIRST.
* FLL Jr. [Standards Alignment](https://www.firstinspires.org/resource-library/flljr/standard-alignment-map).
* FLL [FIRST Steps Curriculum](http://info.firstinspires.org/fll-first-steps-request).

## Contact Us
You can reach Taylor at twhisenant@FIRSTinAlabama.org, me at dwhisenant@FIRSTinAlabama.org, or both of us at FLL@FIRSTinAlabama.org.

Best,

Lawrence (Drew) Whisenant
