# FIRST® LEGO® League Qualifier Notes

Hi all! 

Here are a few things I want to make sure all teams know before going into their qualifiers. This mostly applies to judging, but there are some points that apply to the events in general.

## What To Read
Please make sure you are familiar with **all** the rules and updates, checking the updates at least weekly.
* [Challenge Guide](https://firstinspiresst01.blob.core.windows.net/fll/2019/FIRST-FLL-2018-19-ChallengeGuide-Letter.pdf)
* [Challenge Updates](https://firstinspiresst01.blob.core.windows.net/fll/2019/into-orbit-challenge-updates.pdf)
* [Event Guide](https://firstinspiresst01.blob.core.windows.net/fll/2019/fll-event-guide.pdf)
* [Coaches' Handbook](https://www.firstinspires.org/sites/default/files/uploads/resource_library/fll/into-orbit/first-lego-league-coaches-handbook-20182019.pdf?__hstc=208832909.87f78ebe75deea6fd42baa7ae39c7215.1534298382361.1539696045518.1540175119845.11&__hssc=208832909.1.1540175119845&__hsfp=77943524)

In addition, review the score sheets and rubrics. Remember that we are using a modified Core Values rubric this season. This also means our Core Values Poster guidelines are different.
* [Score Sheet](https://firstinspiresst01.blob.core.windows.net/fll/2019/into-orbit-score-sheet.pdf)

Finally, make sure you pay close attention to any information sent from your qualifier managers, especially if you are attending a double event. If you are attending an event at Hampton Cove Middle School, make sure you and your team know whether you are attending Europa or Enceladus. If you are attending an event at Columbia High School, make sure you and your team know whether you are attending Spirit or Opportunity. While the events occur simultaneously, they are independent, so it is important to pay attention.

When submitting payment (per your qualifier manager's instructions), make sure you indicate your team number on anything you submit for the event.

## What To Bring
### Judging
* Bring your robot and any attachments to Robot Design Judging.
* Bring a printed copy of your robot code to Robot Design Judging **to be left with the judges** and **not returned to the team**.
* Bring all project presentation materials to Project Judging. Do not leave anything with the judges that cannot be discarded.
* Bring your Core Values Poster to Core Values Judging **to be left with the judges** and **returned before the event is over**.

In addition, you **may** complete the Robot Design Summary Worksheet to leave with the Robot Design Judges (not to be returned). To find the document, click the link and the Download button on its page.

### Robot Game
* Your LEGO MINDSTORMS Robot (no more than one MINDSTORMS brick).
* Any attachments.

### The Event
* A print out of your team roster from that Dashboard that indicates consent and release status.
* Physical consent and release forms for anyone (teacher, parent, student, etc.) who did not complete the form online.

## What To Do
### Robot Design Judging
* Students should be prepared for a ten minute Q&A with the judges.
* Students should feel free to use the table with mission mat and models for demos.
* If desired, coaches **may** record these sessions.

### Project Judging
* Students should give a **five minute** presentation.
* Students should be prepared for a follow-up five minute Q&A.
* If desired, coaches **may** record these sessions.
* No venue guarantees presentation capabilities (like projection). If you have needs for your presentation, you **must** ask your qualifier manager in advance.

### Core Values Judging
* Students should be prepared to complete a four minute Teamwork Activity.
* Students should be prepared to present the Core Values Poster for up to three minutes.
* Students should be prepared for a three minute Q&A, covering the activity, the poster, or the season.
* Coaches may not record these sessions **under any circumstances**.

### All Judging
* Teams are guaranteed at least 10 minutes for each judging area. This **includes** setup and tear-down.
* Only the **2-10 student team members** and **two coaches** may enter the judging rooms.
* Coaches are **not** to participate, interrupt, interfere, or signal to the team or judges. **This includes setup and tear-down**.
* Teams may leave materials with judges as they please, but we **only guarantee the return of the Core Values Poster**.

### Robot Game
* Up to **two** student team members are allowed at the tables at a time.
* A student must meet with the referee following the match to review the score sheet.
* Scores **may not be disputed** once the student has signed the score sheet.
* Per official FIRST policy, video recordings are inadmissible for disputes.

## What Happens Next
### Awards
* One team (each) will win the Champion's Award, Project Award, Core Values Award, and Robot Design Award. No team may win more than one.
* One team **may** win a Judges Award if they did not win one of the previous awards and the judges have reason to give the award.
* One coach will receive the Coach/Mentor Award based on team nominations received during the event (you will receive information at the event).
* One volunteer at the event will receive the Volunteer Award.
* The team with the highest single robot score for the day will receive the Robot Performance Award. 

### Advancement
* 40% (ignoring the decimal) of teams attending an event will advance. At a 12 team event, this is four teams.
* Only the Champion's Award winner is guaranteed advancement. **No other awards guarantee advancement**.
* To be eligible to advance, teams must be well-rounded in judging and finish in the Top 75% of Robot Performance.
* To be elibigle to win the Champion's Award (and advance), teams must be well-rounded in judging and finish in the Top 40% of Robot Performance.
* Advancing teams are guaranteed a spot at the FIRST® LEGO® League Alabama Championship.

### Wild Cards
* Wild Card teams will be entered into a drawing on December 9 to fill any remaining spots at the FIRST® LEGO® League Alabama Championship.
* Wild Card teams must be well-rounded in judging and finish in the Top 75% of Robot Performance.
* Wild Card teams will be announced at their events, but are **not** guaranteed a spot at the FIRST® LEGO® League Alabama Championship unless selected on December 9.
* Wild Card teams not selected will be informed and will remain on a waitlist should a team back out of the championship event.

# What... Else?
We have had great discussions in our Slack channels, and I encourage everyone to sign up and get the app! If you are participating (or thinking about it!) in the Open Software Pilot, it would greatly help us if you join the Slack group! Once you join the group (and the other channels), you can message me to join the Open Software Pilot sub-group.

To join our Slack, follow the link in the email. Once you join, you’ll be added to the #first-general and #random channels. We also have these channels that you can and should join (to keep questions on topic). Join as many or as few as apply to you.

* #fll-general - General discussion for FIRST® LEGO® League in Alabama.
* #fll-project - Discussions regarding the FLL Project Component.
* #fll-robot-game - Discussions regarding the FLL Robot Game Component. This also includes Robot Design and Mission Mat and Models.
* #flljr-general - Community Q&A Regarding FIRST® LEGO® League Jr. in Alabama. 

To browse channels or to join a channel, you can find a [tutorial here](https://get.slack.help/hc/en-us/articles/205239967-Browse-and-join-channels).

We have a few resources centralized on our [GitHub page](https://github.com/drewwhis/first-in-alabama/tree/master/2018-2019)!

Finally, have fun! Remember that **everyone** at your event is a volunteer and is there because they want to create a fun, memorable day for the students, their families, and their teachers.

If you have any general questions, feel free to contact me at dwhisenant@FIRSTinAlabama.org. If you have questions about your specific event (including payment), please direct those to your qualifier managers.

Best,

Drew