# FIRST Dashboard Update - FLL and FLL Jr.

Hello FIRST LEGO League and FIRST LEGO League Jr. contacts!

## FIRST Dashboard Updates
Be aware of this note from HQ:
Please note that on Monday, July 30, 2018, the FIRST registration site will be down for maintenance until the afternoon. This is for the deployment of the new FIRST storefront features which will enable FIRST® LEGO®League Jr. and FIRST® LEGO® League teams to purchase their robot sets along with team registration.  Teams will no longer need to link over to LEGO® Education for the core products needed for team participation. Any additional products, such as motors and sensors, will be purchased directly from LEGO Education at their retail web shop.
At this transition time, FIRST LEGO League Jr. and FIRST LEGO League teams who have not provided a sales tax exemption form will see tax calculations on their dashboard reflecting how FIRST will be collecting and remitting sales tax.

Teams currently in the registration system and the general public will receive messaging about the new storefront starting on Tuesday, July 31, 2018, once we have ensured everything deployed correctly.

In addition, with this launch, we will activate shipments of Challenge Sets and Inspire Set materials to teams who have previously registered. They can expect receipt by mid-August. These teams will also have the option of adding Robot Sets directly from the FIRST storefront if they did not purchase them previously (limits apply). Remember, all FIRST LEGO League Jr. and FIRST LEGO League registrations include Inspire Set materials or the Challenge Set.

## Past Emails
Remember that you can find previous emails here: https://github.com/drewwhis/alabama-first-lego-league/tree/master/2018_2019/email_blasts

## Updating Teams
Remember if you are no longer affiliated with a team, you will need to invite your replacement in the Dashboard at https://www.firstinspires.org or contact FIRST directly (Taylor and I are unable to unaffiliate you).

Remember that challenge release for FIRST LEGO League INTO ORBIT and FIRST LEGO League Jr. MISSION MOON is on August 1st!

If you know anyone interested in starting a team, feel free to put them in touch with us (Alabama and the Rocket City have a reputation to uphold this season, after all!).

## Contact
You can reach Taylor at twhisenant@FIRSTinAlabama.org, me at dwhisenant@FIRSTinAlabama.org, or both of us at FLL@FIRSTinAlabama.org.

Best,
Lawrence (Drew) Whisenant
