# FIRST® LEGO® League State Information

Hi teams!

I apologize for the delay of sending this email. Between the holidays, some teams dropping, and the start of the FIRST® Robotics Competition seasion, we've had our hands tied!

As a reminder, if your team is unable to attend the state event, please let us know no later than February 1.

## Team Names

We ask that you update your team's name in the FIRST Dashboard to match what you would like displayed on all documentation. Please do so by February 15. As a reminder, the words LEGO and FIRST should be displayed in all caps with no punctuation (if you wish to incorporate them into the name).

To change your team name:

1. Go to [your FIRST Dashboard](https://www.firstinspires.org) and log in.
2. On the "My Teams" tab, expand your team's list item.
3. On the "Team Information" button/dropdown on the left side of the screen, click "Team Profile."
4. Edit the Team Name and click the "Save" button at the bottom of the page.

## Time and Location

The FIRST® LEGO® League Alabama Championship is scheduled for Saturday, March 2, 2019 at Hampton Cove Middle School in Owens Cross Roads, Alabama. The doors will open at 7:00 AM and events on the schedule will begin with the Coaches Meeting at 7:30. We plan on providing an overall schedule closer to the event.

## Payment

The fee to participate in the event is $100 for each team. Checks should be made payable to **FIRST in Alabama** and can be sent to 3002 Boundary Oaks Drive, Owens Cross Roads, AL 35763 or can be turned in upon arrival. When submitting payment, make sure to note the **team numbers** for which payment is being submitted.

If you require financial documentation, such as an invoice, please direct inquiries to Taylor at **twhisenant@FIRSTinAlabama.org**.

## Judging Expectations

All judging requirements from the qualifiers will remain in place. You can refer to those [here](https://github.com/drewwhis/alabama-first-lego-league/tree/master/2018-2019/judging). **Please pay attention to the Core Values requirements**. We had several teams during the qualifiers miss important information about the Core Values Pilot, so we don't want anyone to miss out!

For state, we ask that teams turn in their Core Values poster **at registration** with the team number **clearly visible**. This will allow the judges some time to review the posters before and after judging. They will be available to you in the room for your session. You will leave them in the room, and they will be returned to you by the conclusion of the event.

As a reminder, the only people allowed in the judging room with the team are the **two coaches** and the **team members (up to 10)**. You are allowed to video the **Project and Robot Design** sessions, should you choose, but you **may not** film the Core Values session.

If your team wishes to request A/V capabilities, such as video projection (and you do not plan on providing your own), let us know ASAP so we can see what options we can provide. If you have any other requests in regard to the judging sessions, also let us know.

## Team Information Sheets

We will be utilizing the Team Information Sheets for the state event. We ask that your team information sheet meet these requirements:

- Be typed.
- Meet the requirements listed on the document.
- Take **no more** than two pages when completed.
- Be submitted to dwhisenant@FIRSTinAlabama.org no later than Friday, February 15.

It may be possible to meet the word count requirements and go beyond two pages. If this is the case for you, I suggest either making the font smaller (as long as it is still legible), resizing boxes, or shortening your responses. Let me know if you run into any issues.

## Awards and Invitations

At the state event, we will be awarding:

- Core Awards
  - Presentation: First Place
  - Research: First Place
  - Innovative Solution: First Place
  - Gracious Professionalism: First Place
  - Inspiration: First Place
  - Teamwork: First Place
  - Mechanical Design: First Place
  - Programming: First Place
  - Strategy & Innovation: First Place
  - Robot Performance: First Place
  - Champion's Award: First, Second, Third Place
- Other Awards
  - Coach/Mentor Award

We may also award Judges Awards. For the Coach/Mentor Award, we will have forms for students to complete and submit **at the event**.

Our First Place Champion's Award Winner will also receive an invitation to the FIRST® LEGO® League World Festival in Houston, TX, to be held April 17-20, 2019.

Other teams may receive invitations to other invitational tournaments or to prepare a submission for the FIRST® Global Innovation Award.

## Closing

If you have any questions, please let us know at FLL@FIRSTinAlabama.org.

We look forward to seeing you!

Best,
Lawrence (Drew) Whisenant