Hello teams!

We know that many of you are wrapping up or have already completed an especially difficult academic year, and we hope you have as productive or relaxing of a summer as you want! Our current goal is to get these messages out weekly on Tuesday evenings.

## Frequently Asked Questions

As always, please remember to (briefly) check our [Frequently Asked Questions page](https://github.com/drewwhis/first-in-alabama/wiki/Frequently-Asked-Questions) before reaching out with questions you might have. If your question is there, it'll save you time by not having to wait for a response from us!


## Updated Program Information

We have updated our [Program Structure page](https://github.com/drewwhis/first-in-alabama/blob/main/first-lego-league/2021-2022/program-structure.md) with some additional information about participation, fees, and the differences between Class Pack and Traditional Teams for all of our divisions!

It's a good summary for new and veteran teams alike.


## Branding Resources

Do you want to incorporate *FIRST*&reg; FORWARD or CARGO CONNECT logos/branding into your team's materials? You can find the materials available [here from *FIRST*&reg;](https://info.firstinspires.org/free-season-content?utm_campaign=assets-022&utm_medium=all&_hsmi=128728284&_hsenc=p2ANqtz--nSafZyAaHRzLp1fRlikXrw1iOgb1R4OOYxRZUMwMko-032NzGVMrGW5l6F5qkCyXTtNcA9Rskii9FfU1QZ_hDJo3czRsR9LZ-pqvzEQB1chPATo4&utm_source=partner-blast). You can also learn more about *FIRST*&reg;'s branding guidelines and policies or find non-season-specific materials [here](https://www.firstinspires.org/brand?utm_source=hubspot&utm_medium=season-content&utm_campaign=assets-021).


## *FIRST*&reg; in Alabama Discord

Last season, we set up a Discord server for all *FIRST*&reg; teams in Alabama across the entire progression of programs. Membership is extended to coaches, mentors, parents, and students. As with any Internet account, members must be at least 13 years old to sign up for a Discord account.

Here, you can directly message with *FIRST*&reg; staff and field representatives, as well as with other coaches. We also tend to make big announcements and share links in the Discord prior to a regularly scheduled email.

To join the server as a *FIRST*&reg; LEGO&reg; League member, use [this link](http://discord.gg/7eyJvm3). Once you're in, you can sign up for the other programs (FTC and FRC) if you so choose, just make sure to see the pinned message from MEE6 at the top of the channel about adding and removing roles. If you can't see a program you want to see (FLL, FTC, FRC), just interact with that pinned message again.

You can learn more about using Discord [here](https://support.discord.com/hc/en-us/articles/360045138571-Beginner-s-Guide-to-Discord).


## Closing

We are not currently aware of any grants for Traditional Teams/Class Packs in any *FIRST*&reg; LEGO&reg; League division at this time, but we will share that and any other information we have as it becomes available.


Best,

Taylor Whisenant
- Program Delivery Partner - *FIRST*&reg; LEGO League
- Collaborative Teacher - Athens City Schools

Drew Whisenant
- Program Delivery Partner - *FIRST*&reg; LEGO League
- Senior Software Engineer - Booz Allen Hamilton

FLL@FIRSTinAlabama.org