# FIRST® LEGO® League Qualifier Registration Update/Reminder

Hello teams!

Qualifier registration is well under way! 
We currently have **49** teams who have submitted their preferences. 
By my count, we have **31** teams still eligible to register right now.

For those who have not registered (for whatever reason), your team should fall into one of four categories.
1. **Paid team with a primary coach**. These teams can complete the form right now, and their team should be listed if they haven’t registered yet.
2. **Paid team missing a primary coach**. These teams **cannot** register at this time. To resolve the issue, you’ll need a coach to accept the invitation to join the team in their dashboard.
3. **Rookie team missing payment**. These teams **cannot** register at this time. Your team is identified by a longer number that starts with 2018. To resolve the issue, you’ll need to submit payment.
4. **Existing team missing payment**. These teams **cannot** register at this time. Your team competed in a previous season but has not paid for the current season. To resolve the issue, you’ll need to submit payment.

I tried to let as many teams as I could know on Saturday what their status was, and as teams become eligible to register, I am sending the registration information to the primary coach.

We have two registration-related deadlines approaching.
1. **Friday, September 21**. This is the deadline to add a team in your Dashboard. No teams may be **created** after this date.
2. **Saturday, October 6**. This is the deadline to register for qualifiers. No teams may register for events after this date.

**If you have not paid FIRST**:
* You will have to pay the $299 before we can register you for an event.
* It can take at least a day for the registration system to reflect your payment on our end (we don’t see everything HQ does).
* If you make a payment over the weekend, we may not see the changes until Monday.

**If you are no longer affiliated with a team**:
* Remove yourself as a team contact by logging into your Dashboard at https://www.firstinspires.org.
* If you cannot remove yourself, complete the form at https://www.firstinspires.org/about/contact-us.

Finally, if you indicate in the registration form that you are interested in the Open Software Pilot (yes or maybe), we ask that you join the Slack workspace so we can add you to the discussion channel for the pilot.

Please let me know if you have any questions. I have FIRST teams of my own in other programs, so I might be able to answer your Dashboard questions (but I won’t be able to fix any issues).

Best,
Lawrence (Drew) Whisenant