# FLL and FLL Jr. Announcements and Judging Requirements

Hello everyone!

I hope you’re enjoying the long weekend. 
We were glad to see so many new and returning coaches for this season at our kickoff yesterday. 
This is the first time we’ve done an event like this in Alabama, and we plan to continue doing so in the future (though we might aim for a week earlier next time).

Now that the event is over, expect less frequent contact (about once per week) until the qualifiers start, unless we have information we need to pass along quickly.

## Kickoff Event
All of the slide decks for the kickoff event have been posted. 
I made some slight tweaks from Saturday, but nothing substantial or worth pointing out specifically.

The event was recorded and can be viewed on YouTube (disabled on GitHub) (sound doesn’t start until about 6 or 7 minutes into the broadcast because we were getting set up).

## Team Contact Information
Only teams that are registered with FIRST will be eligible to participate in official events. 
Please make sure that your team information is up to date in [your dashboard](https://www.firstinspires.org). 

If you are no longer affiliated with a team, please make sure to log in and either invite a replacement or leave the team.

## Judging Requirements for Teams - FLL Only
In addition to the robot game, all teams are required to complete judging in three areas. Here are the requirements and expectations for judging this season.
* Robot Design
  * Format: 10-minute question and answer with judges.
  * Requirements: Bring your robot and a printed, readable copy of your robot code. Judges will keep the code.
  * Optional: Teams *may* submit the Robot Design Summary Worksheet.
  * Room will have a table with mat and models to demo.
  * Coaches *may* record these sessions.
* Project
  * Format: 5-minute presentation followed by 5-minute question-and-answer.
  * Requirements: Presentation must not exceed five minutes.
  * Coaches *may* record these sessions.
* Core Values
  * Format: 4-minute teamwork activity, 3-minute Core Values Poster presentation, 3-minute question-and-answer.
  * Requirements: Complete and present the Core Values Poster and leave it with the judges.
  * The Core Values Poster will be returned by the end of the event.
  * Coaches *may __not__* record these sessions.

Here are some additional notes that apply to all judging:
* Only the 2-10 student team members and two coaches may enter the judging rooms.
* Coaches are not to participate, interrupt, interfere, or signal to the team or judges. This __includes__ setup and tear-down.
* Other than the Core Values Poster, if your team wants to leave something with judges, construct it in such a way that you are comfortable not getting it back. __We only guarantee the return of the Core Values Poster__.

## Event Registration
Registration for the FIRST® LEGO® League Jr. Alabama Expo will open in January 2019. 
The Expo will be on 16 March at the Von Braun Center in Huntsville. 
One team that attends the Alabama Expo will be selected by lottery to attend the FIRST® LEGO® League Jr. World Festival Expo in Houston, TX, in April.

Registration for the FIRST® LEGO® League qualifiers will open on Saturday, 15 Sept. and close on Saturday, 6 Oct. 
At that time, you will have a list of all event locations and dates, and you will rank your top preferences. 
We will then attempt to maximize everyone’s first choices __as best we can__. 
Please remember that no event can have more than 12 teams, and no team is guaranteed any event, other than the one exception below.

The exception to the “guaranteed event" is that any team that indicates a November event as their first choice will be guaranteed that event __if we do not tell them otherwise within 24 hours of registration__.

Our possible dates for qualifiers are 3 Nov., 10 Nov., 1 Dec., and 8 Dec. We will have a list of event locations (with dates) on or before 15 September, __but we are not in a position to announce that information at this time__.

## TVA Grants
FIRST has reported that the TVA grants are nearly gone, so if you haven’t already applied, time is running out! You can apply for a TVA grant using this link (disabled on GitHub).

## Slack
We had a brief introduction to Slack at Saturday’s kickoff, so you can refer to the video and the slides posted above. 
Questions from the event (for those who were remote) were posted in #first-general. 
Now that the event is over, all conversations should be in the appropriate channel.

To join our Slack, follow this link (disabled on GitHub). 
Once you join, you’ll be added to the #first-general and #random channels. 
We also have these channels that you can and should join (to keep questions on topic). 
Join as many or as few as apply to you.
* #fll-general - General discussion for FIRST® LEGO® League in Alabama.
* #fll-project - Discussions regarding the FLL Project Component.
* #fll-robot-game - Discussions regarding the FLL Robot Game Component. This also includes Robot Design and Mission Mat and Models.
* #flljr-general - Community Q&A Regarding FIRST® LEGO® League Jr. in Alabama.
To browse channels or to join a channel, you can find a [tutorial here](https://get.slack.help/hc/en-us/articles/205239967-Browse-and-join-channels).

## Quick Reference
* [Old Emails](https://github.com/drewwhis/first-in-alabama/tree/main/first-lego-league/2018-2019/email-blasts)
* FLL Jr. Alabama Expo - 16 March
* FLL Alabama Qualifiers - 3 Nov., 10 Nov., 1 Dec., 8 Dec.
* FLL Alabama Championship - 2 March
* A [more inclusive FIRST](https://www.firstinspires.org/about/diversityinclusion?utm_source=partner-blast&utm_medium=flljr&utm_campaign=edi-training-019)
* [FLL FIRST Steps Curriculum](http://info.firstinspires.org/fll-first-steps-request)

## Contact Us
You can contact me a dwhisenant@FIRSTinAlabama.org, Taylor at twhisenant@FIRSTinAlabama.org, or both of us at FLL@FIRSTinAlabama.org.

Best,

Lawrence (Drew) Whisenant