Hello teams!

We hope you had an enjoyable Thanksgiving! We haven't had much information to share over the past month, but there's only a small amount of time left in the year so we wanted to touch base!

## Contents

- FLL Challenge Qualifiers
- Heritage Team Survey
- Discord
- Closing


## FLL Challenge Qualifiers

According to *FIRST*®, Alabama currently has 37 registered teams. To be eligible for events, a team must be registered (and paid) through *FIRST*®. Next week, we will send a survey to all **paid** teams with qualifier date preferences. Remember that all qualifiers are *virtual*, so you will not travel for the event. We hope to have more information on what to expect at a virtual event in the coming weeks. In the meantime, I suggest reading over past emails (which are all stored in the GitHub) and the documents in the challenge folder (there's a link at the end of this email).

We have opted to push the qualifiers back by one week, so the two dates at 13 February 2021 and 20 February 2021. Since we only recently gained access to the virtual event system, we decided this was the most effective course of action.

If we do not have more than 60 teams registered by the end of the year (31 December 2020), our plan is that the qualifiers won't be official tournament events; rather, they will be practice/feedback events for all teams. We will have robot rounds and judging, and your team will receive feedback, but **every team** will compete in the (virtual) state championship. This also means there would be no official award structure **at the "qualifiers"**, but we would determine some alternative.

If your primary contact **does not receive** the survey **next week**, that means the team is not currently registered. The email will go out on Tuesday, December 8. I will also email all un-registered teams at that time (so you know if you were left out). The primary contact for an FLL Challenge team is the Lead Coach/Mentor 1. To change this person, check your Dashboard and our FAQ (at the end of this email).


# Heritage Team Survey

We have an announcement to share from one of the teams in our state!

    "Calling all Alabama FLL Teams! We have so many talented LEGO® Robotics programs in our state. As a primarily veteran team, our Heritage Elementary LEGO® Robotics Team in Madison, AL has made connecting teams a major goal for this year. Whether your team is new to this, needs support in one of the three competition areas, or would like to offer up support to others; we would love to support you or get you connected with a team who can provide the type of support you need. Simply use the link below to complete a short survey and help us help you!"
    
You can participate with [this link](https://tinyurl.com/alabamafllconnect).


# Discord

Our Discord is available to coaches, mentors, parents, volunteers, and students (aged 13 and older) across all *FIRST*® programs! We have opted to move to Discord (across all programs) because it is very similar to Slack with the benefit that many students (especially high school students) are using it already! Like Slack, it can also be used to communicate with other coaches or with *FIRST*® staff. To learn more about using Discord, you can check out their [Beginner's Guide](https://support.discord.com/hc/en-us/articles/360045138571).

There is **no requirement or expectation** that you or anyone with your team use the Discord. We are simplify offering it as another avenue for members of our community to receive direct information. One benefit of the Discord is early access to information! We only plan to email teams once per week, but if we get helpful-but-not-urgent information, it'll go in the Discord first!
 
To join the Discord as a member of the *FIRST*® LEGO® League program, you can use and share this link - [Join Discord](). Note that the link is disabled on GitHub.
 
If you are involved in multiple programs, you can add the other programs after you've joined! If you have questions, feel free to reach out.


# Closing

Please remember that you can always consult:

- [FLL Discover Resources](https://github.com/drewwhis/first-in-alabama/blob/main/first-lego-league/2020-2021/discover)
- [FLL Explore Resources](https://github.com/drewwhis/first-in-alabama/blob/main/first-lego-league/2020-2021/explore)
- [FLL Challenge Resources](https://github.com/drewwhis/first-in-alabama/tree/main/first-lego-league/2020-2021/challenge)
- [Past Emails](https://github.com/drewwhis/first-in-alabama/tree/main/first-lego-league/2020-2021/email-blasts)
- [FAQ](https://github.com/drewwhis/first-in-alabama/wiki/Frequently-Asked-Questions)
- [Program Structure](https://github.com/drewwhis/first-in-alabama/tree/main/first-lego-league/2020-2021/program-structure.md)


Best,

Drew and Taylor Whisenant

*FIRST*® LEGO® League Program Delivery Partners