Hello teams!

We know many of you are returning to in-person schooling (or already have) and many are still learning remotely! No matter your situation, we hope you are able to learn effectively and safely!


# Contents

- EV3 Classroom App
- *FIRST*® Mentor Network
- Additional Sets (Challenge and Explore)
- Discord
- Closing


# EV3 Classroom App

For those running macOS, you've probably been working with the EV3 Classroom App since late 2019. This software replaces the previous LEGO® MINDSTORMS programming tool. The new tool uses a block-based language similar to [Scratch](https://scratch.mit.edu).

Windows 10 users can now install the EV3 Classroom software through the [Windows Store](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/p/ev3-classroom-lego-education/9p8sjvzm63sz) for free, and macOS can still find the new software through [LEGO Education](https://education.lego.com/en-us/downloads/mindstorms-ev3/software).

Note that as of right now, other platforms (including iPad, Android, and ChromeOS) appear to be using the older software, which is still allowed in in FLL Challenge!


# *FIRST*® Mentor Network

Starting this season, *FIRST*® is introducing the *FIRST*® Mentor Network! The Mentor Network is a tool to match teams looking for mentors with mentors looking for teams!

If your team is looking for mentors in one or more areas, you can head to [the website](https://my.firstinspires.org/MentorNetwork/welcome), which is also accessible through your Dashboard. I recommend using this link, though, as the Dashboard path isn't as obvious.

On the welcome page, click on "Get Started" under **Find a Mentor**. This is the option to the *right*. The first page will ask for some kind of picture for your team - I would recommend a team or school logo! The second page just wants some information about what your team is looking for in terms of mentoring. The last page is where you make your mentor role requests! You can select specialties you're looking for, locations (including virtual only for now!), and availability!

Once you finish, you'll see your post under the **Manage Posts** tab on top of the page. At first, your post will be *hidden*. There is a toggle switch to move on the left-side of your post. If it goes green and says *Visible*, then mentors can find your post!

If you have **at least one Visible post**, then you can view mentor profiles! Just click the **Discovery** tab at the top to view mentors. If you don't see any mentors, click on the **Manage Posts** tab to make sure you have at least one *Visible* post!

You can message potential mentors with the message button on their profiles. You also can view any messages your team has received by clicking on the **Messages** tab at the top of the page. 

This is still a new service, so you might have more luck initiating with mentors who match your filter criteria!

*FIRST*® has more information about the Mentor Network available [at this link](https://info.firstinspires.org/mentor-network).


# Additional Sets (Challenge and Explore)

Don't forget that Challenge and Explore teams can order one **additional** Challenge or Explore set this season! The RePLAY Challenge set is \$75, and the PLAYMAKERS Explore set is \$35 (all plus tax and shipping). *FIRST*® hopes this makes managing teams with some level of remote participation more possible for more teams!


# Discord

Our Discord is available to coaches, mentors, parents, volunteers, and students (aged 13 and older) across all *FIRST*® programs! We have opted to move to Discord (across all programs) because it is very similar to Slack with the benefit that many students (especially high school students) are using it already! Like Slack, it can also be used to communicate with other coaches or with *FIRST*® staff. To learn more about using Discord, you can check out their [Beginner's Guide](https://support.discord.com/hc/en-us/articles/360045138571).

There is **no requirement or expectation** that you or anyone with your team use the Discord. We are simplify offering it as another avenue for members of our community to receive direct information. One benefit of the Discord is early access to information! We only plan to email teams once per week, but if we get helpful-but-not-urgent information, it'll go in the Discord first!
 
To join the Discord as a member of the *FIRST*® LEGO® League program, you can use and share this link - [Join Discord](). Note that the link is disabled on GitHub.
 
If you are involved in multiple programs, you can add the other programs after you've joined! If you have questions, feel free to reach out.


# Closing

Please remember that you can always consult:

- [FLL Discover Resources](https://github.com/drewwhis/first-in-alabama/blob/main/first-lego-league/2020-2021/discover)
- [FLL Explore Resources](https://github.com/drewwhis/first-in-alabama/blob/main/first-lego-league/2020-2021/explore)
- [FLL Challenge Resources](https://github.com/drewwhis/first-in-alabama/tree/main/first-lego-league/2020-2021/challenge)
- [Past Emails](https://github.com/drewwhis/first-in-alabama/tree/main/first-lego-league/2020-2021/email-blasts)
- [FAQ](https://github.com/drewwhis/first-in-alabama/wiki/Frequently-Asked-Questions)
- [Program Structure](https://github.com/drewwhis/first-in-alabama/tree/main/first-lego-league/2020-2021/program-structure.md)


Best,

Drew and Taylor Whisenant

*FIRST*® LEGO® League Program Delivery Partners