Hello teams!

Happy September!

# Contents

- Additional Sets (Challenge and Explore)
- AndyMark Competition Table
- Discord
- Closing


# Additional Sets (Challenge and Explore)

From *FIRST*®:

    To assist with remote participation registered teams will be allowed this season to order one additional RePLAY Challenge set for \$75 and/or one additional PLAYMAKERS Explore set for \$35 (Your first Explore set is included with \$99 registration fee). Applicable sales tax and shipping fees will be added to each order. 

    This function will be available on the *FIRST*® store beginning August 27. 


# AndyMark Competition Table

AndyMark is one of the principal suppliers for the *FIRST*® Robotics Competition (FRC) and the *FIRST*® Tech Challenge (FTC). This year, they've developed a competition table for FLL Challenge! The table is built in three segments for easy storage. Initial orders open on September 1st for \$199 (follow-ups will be \$229), and the table is re-usable year-after-year, so it's definitely a solid investment! You can learn more by visiting the [product page](https://www.andymark.com/products/robot-competition-table).

I will, of course, note that we are not mandating or endorsing this specific table for FLL Challenge over any other table that meets the FLL Challenge table guidelines. 

We (*FIRST*® in Alabama) are ordering some and making a trip to pick them up to save on shipping. If you are **planning** to order before next week (September 9) and are interested in having yours picked up when we go, please contact us **before you order** and we can talk about the process. We can only carry so many, though, and we will respond to inquiries in the order they are received.


# Discord

Our Discord is available to coaches, mentors, parents, volunteers, and students (aged 13 and older) across all *FIRST*® programs! We have opted to move to Discord (across all programs) because it is very similar to Slack with the benefit that many students (especially high school students) are using it already! Like Slack, it can also be used to communicate with other coaches or with *FIRST*® staff. To learn more about using Discord, you can check out their [Beginner's Guide](https://support.discord.com/hc/en-us/articles/360045138571).

There is **no requirement or expectation** that you or anyone with your team use the Discord. We are simplify offering it as another avenue for members of our community to receive direct information. One benefit of the Discord is early access to information! We only plan to email teams once per week, but if we get helpful-but-not-urgent information, it'll go in the Discord first!
 
To join the Discord as a member of the *FIRST*® LEGO® League program, you can use and share this link - [Join Discord](). Note that the link is disabled on GitHub.
 
If you are involved in multiple programs, you can add the other programs after you've joined! If you have questions, feel free to reach out.


# Closing

Please remember that you can always consult:

- [FLL Discover Resources](https://github.com/drewwhis/first-in-alabama/blob/main/first-lego-league/2020-2021/discover)
- [FLL Explore Resources](https://github.com/drewwhis/first-in-alabama/blob/main/first-lego-league/2020-2021/explore)
- [FLL Challenge Resources](https://github.com/drewwhis/first-in-alabama/tree/main/first-lego-league/2020-2021/challenge)
- [Past Emails](https://github.com/drewwhis/first-in-alabama/tree/main/first-lego-league/2020-2021/email-blasts)
- [FAQ](https://github.com/drewwhis/first-in-alabama/wiki/Frequently-Asked-Questions)
- [Program Structure](https://github.com/drewwhis/first-in-alabama/tree/main/first-lego-league/2020-2021/program-structure.md)


Best,

Drew and Taylor Whisenant

*FIRST*® LEGO® League Program Delivery Partners