Hello teams!

We have finished the Week 1 Scrimmage, and we have some updated information to share! We will be sending judging rubrics and match scores to the teams who participated today. We've already identified several areas of improvement for state (and for the Week 2 events), so we hope to get those implemented quickly. These events are as much a learning experience for us in running virtual events as they are for you in participating in virtual events (and getting feedback).

Here are some updates we'd like to share with all teams, including those participating in the Week 2 Scrimmage.

## Our Improvements

For those who participated today, I wanted to share some improvements we have planned for state (and hopefully the Week 2 event).
- Additional time between judging sessions for sign-in buffer.
- Cameras for all judging pods.
- Giving judges admit permissions on the Google Meet.

Some of this won't be possible for the Week 2 event due to scheduling, but we're already working on improvements.

If you have **already had your Scrimmage**, we invite you to provide any helpful feedback, keeping in mind that some things, like the new judging format, are outside of our control and cannot be changed. You can find the feedback form [at this link](). We will keep the link live and re-share it next week following the Week 2 Scrimmage. Again, Week 1 teams will receive their feedback forms later today or tomorrow.


## Judging

As we've mentioned before, the judging process is very different this year. You'll want to familiarize yourself with the new format. We have the schedule and more details on our [Judging Page](https://github.com/drewwhis/first-in-alabama/blob/main/first-lego-league/2020-2021/challenge/judging.md). We also have the rubrics for this season on our [Challenge Resources Page](https://github.com/drewwhis/first-in-alabama/blob/main/first-lego-league/2020-2021/challenge/resources.md).

One thing we noticed is that teams may be super excited to roll into their presentation. According to the judging flow, there is a Team Welcome prior to the first presentation, where the judges will introduce themselves and possibly ask some questions. Please plan for this brief period to occur *before* your first presentation. 

Along those same lines, pay close attention to the allotted times for each segment. There are no allotted times for transitions, so you will need to build time into your presentations for any transitions you anticipate or be able to transition while starting a new presentation.

We also noticed that teams may try to use their robot game mat in their Robot Design Judging presentation. Please be aware that we do not use robot tables for Robot Design Judging (as a *FIRST* Global Standard), so if you are running on the table or using the models in your demonstrations, the judges will have to discount that information. If you're just using the table as a place to set your robot down, that isn't a problem, but actually running the robot with the models would be.

With the current pandemic, we noticed that some teams tend to favor a breakdown where in-person students work more on the Robot Design while remote students work more on the Innovation Project. We understand this model is helpful, but you do need to make sure that *every* student on the team is *familiar* with every component of the team. The judges should be able to ask any student about any part of the competition, even if it wasn't something they took the lead on.

Along those lines, we encourage all students to join in the judging meeting, even if they can't meet in-person with the rest of your team. You should be able to share the link to your meeting with the other members, and the judges should be able to admit them.

For the judging meetings, we do recommend trying to get into the meeting 10 minutes before your time starts. We noticed that some teams had issues getting in, and we think we have the fixes in place on our end. Some schools do block access to Google Meet, so you'll want to check with your IT Department prior to your next event. If you run into issues accessing the meeting, email Taylor for assistance.

We would also like to remind you about materials submitted to judges. As in a real competition, all judging materials submitted are **supplemental**. There is **no guarantee** at any *FIRST* event in any region (per the *FIRST* Global Standards) that the judges will review supplemental materials **except for robot code**. Anything else you want the judges to see or know must be conveyed **by the team during the judging session**.


## Robot Rounds

Our robot round reviewers went through each video in Week 1 and tried to give as much feedback as possible. You should see notes both in terms of how you filmed the video as well as anything they noticed about the particular run. We want to make sure you know what went wrong before state gets here. 

One thing we want to emphasize is that every team should read, re-read, and triple-read, both the Robot Game Rulebook and the Challenge Updates, both documents are linked on our [Resources Page](https://github.com/drewwhis/first-in-alabama/blob/main/first-lego-league/2020-2021/challenge/resources.md). There have been a few updates since the season started, and they can affect your final scores.

We saw a few teams running on their floors or on normal tables, which is absolutely fine **for the Scrimmage weeks**. For the state competition, you will need to use a table to the *FIRST* LEGO League specifications (we have Table Building Instructions on our [Resources Page](https://github.com/drewwhis/first-in-alabama/blob/main/first-lego-league/2020-2021/challenge/resources.md)).

Our reviewers noticed a few models that weren't build properly. If the model is built wrong and it provides a strategic advantage, you are likely to lose points for that mission. Make sure you double-check all of your models with the Mission Model Building Instructions on our [Resources Page](https://github.com/drewwhis/first-in-alabama/blob/main/first-lego-league/2020-2021/challenge/resources.md).

In your recordings, you need to make sure you record the inspection for each run. If possible, you should have a timer visible in your recording; we realize this may be difficult, so if you can't you need to make it obvious when the match time should start. Saying, "3-2-1-LEGO!" is a great, audible cue for the referees. Make sure your camera is stationary with a good view of the entire field, including the Launch Area and Home during the run. Following each run, make sure to move the camera around the table for a close-up view of the missions when everything is finished.

The reviewers also wanted teams to be reminded that for Mission 08 (M08), only one cube going over counts for teamwork.

One **big** issue we want to help teams prevent is what I'll call a **False Start**. A **False Start** happens when you start your robot and it isn't completely in the Launch Area. At an in-person event, the referee would be able to stop your robot before it left the Launch Area. For virtual events, you run the risk of **nothing being scored** for that run until the robot is correctly launched from the Launch Area. This is my personal top concern because there isn't much our tournament staff can do to mitigate this problem, so you'll need to work with your teams and thoroughly review the run videos you'll submit.

*FIRST* very recently released guidelines for recording your robot rounds. It was released so late that we didn't want to burden the teams in Week 1 with the information, and we aren't going to require that Week 2 teams follow the guidelines. We will need them for state, and we might have a time in March to do a practice submission with the guidelines. You can find the [Document here](https://firstinspiresst01.blob.core.windows.net/first-game-changers/fll-challenge/robot-game-video-recording-doc.pdf) and the [YouTube video here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-ZzYF3FSyDE&feature=youtu.be); both are linked on our [Resources Page](https://github.com/drewwhis/first-in-alabama/blob/main/first-lego-league/2020-2021/challenge/resources.md).

If you're worried about camera setup, any external HD web camera with tripod should work great with a computer's photo/video recording software. You should be able to find a set for about $30-40 total, if you are looking for a solution.

## Closing

Again, we'd like to thank everyone who has already participated and all of you ready to go for Week 2! We do not have any plans to post Robot Round scores from the Scrimmages, and there were no awards deliberations. We do, however, ask that you celebrate with your team to commemorate this milestone in your season.

Week 1 Teams should receive their judging rubrics and robot game score sheets later today. Please let us know if you have any questions or if anything isn't clear. We would like to resolve any discrepancies before the Week 2 event, so please look over your forms carefully.

Best,

Drew and Taylor Whisenant
